1. Dry winds (harmattan) blows in Sahara desert from? -East to West
2. Which industry in India was worst affected because of the partition? -Jute & Cotton
3. What is exact time taken by the earth for single rotation on its own axis? -23 hs 56 mins 4.09 sec
4. Because of which factor, clouds do not precipitate in deserts? -Low Humidity
5. Which river crosses the equator twice? -Congo
6. Under which climatic conditions do the laterite soils develop? -Wet Tropical Climate
7. Which is the most important factor in soil formation? -Climate
8 The deepest surface depression on earth is? -Mariana Trench
9. The word “isoneph” represents the lines of equal ? -Cloudiness
10. Who discovered South Pole? -Amudsen
11. The Karakoram Highway connects which pairs of countries? -China-Pakistan
12. What is the most abundant metal in the earth’s crust? -Aluminium
13. India is divided into how many seismic zones according to the earthquake zoning map? -4
14. Inwhich State is the Guru Shikhar Peak located? -Rajasthan
15. Which one is the longest river in India that flows entirely within India? -Godavari
16. Which lake has been formed due to tectonic activities? -Wular lake
17. By what name is the Ganga known in Bangladesh? -Padma
18. Which State produces maximum pulses'in the country? -Madhya Pradesh
19. Which is the largest fresh water lake in the world? -Lake Superior
20. Where is Sargasso sea located? -North Atlantic Ocean
21. Which State has the largest coastline in India? -Gujarat
22. Duncan Passage is located between which regions? -South & Little Andaman
23. What is the most abundant elementin the earth’s crust? -Oxygen
24. After howmany years does Halley's comet appear once in a period? -76 years
25. rainfall that occurs when windrises up along a hill? -Orographic
26. In which country are the broken hill famous for zinc and lead? -Austral
27. Which is most prone to earthquakes? -Young folded mountains
28. What is the length of India's coastline? -About 7500 Km
29. How many kms are represented by 10° of latitudes? -111 kms
30. Which is aglobal biodiversity hotspot in India? -Western Ghats
31. Where are the islands of Seychelles located? -Indian Ocean
32. Mangroove vegetation in India is most extensive in which forest? -Sundarbans
33. Suez Canal joins which two Sea? -Red & Mediterranean Sea
34. Which biome has the highest species diversity? -Tropical Rain Forests
35. Which country in Africa has luxurious tropical rain forests? -Wory Coast
36. Which crop requires continuous semiaquatic condition for cultivation? -Rice
37. Where are a large number of species are found within a small unit of area?-Wet Evergreen Equatorial forests
38. Which mountain range stretches from Gujarat in west to Delhi in the north? -Aravallis,
39. Which type of forest covers the maximum area in India? -Tropical Moist Deciduous Forest
40. What is the term as the drainage pattern developed on folded sedimentary rocks? -Trellis
41. Which ecosystem covers the largest area of the earth’s surface? -Marine Ecosystem
42. What percentage of insolation is received by the earth’s surface? -47%
43. What type of climate is best suited for horticulture? -Mediterranean
44. Which city is associated with the river Mekong? -Phnom-Penh
48. Which is the busiest oceanic trade route? -North Atlantic Route
46. What is the average salinity of sea water? -50%
47. The winds which never change their direction are called? -Planetary Winds
48. Which plate movement is responsible for the formation of mid ocean ridge? -Divergent Movement
49. Which is the largest volcano crater in the world? -Lake Toba
50. In India, how many States share the coastline? -9
51. The tornadoes are very strong tropical cyclones originating in which sea? -Caribbean Sea
52. Inwhich latitudes are the seasonal contrasts maximum? -Mid Latitudes
53. Which state in India is known as “Rice Bow!"? -Andhra Pradesh
54. What are Doldrums? -Tropical no wind belts 
55. “Valley of flowers” is located n which state? -Uttrakhand
56. Which is called ‘Herring Pond’? -Atlantic ocean
57. What is the name of India's southern tip? -Indira Point
58. Lines joining places receiving equal amount of rain fall? -Isohytes
59. What is the reason behind the declining climate of Maldives? -high Population Density
60. Which place gets the least rainfall in India? -Jodhpur
61. Which hill station is known as the “Queen of Satpura"? -Panchmarhi
62. Which are the two voleanic islands in the Indian territory? -Narcoam & Barren
63. Which is the longest national highway? -NH7
64. The Vindhyas belong to which class of mountains? -Block mountains
65. Which is the World's largest producer of wool? -Australia
66. Which soil is also known as’ Regu’? -Black Soil
67. what is known as soil free farming? -Hydroponics
68. Ifitis 4PM. on Monday at 10°W, what will be the time at 150°E? -12 Noon on Tuesday
69. Country through which both Equator and Tropic of Capricorn pass? -brazil
70. What is thename of the soil, rich in calcium? -Pedocal
71. Which lake is known as “honeymoon lake”? -Lake Titicaca
72. Which country has maximum damage to forests been caused by acid rain? -Poland
73. Which country is situated geographically in America but politically apart of Europe? -Greenland
74. The fertile land between two rivers is called? -Doab
75. Which Strait separates Aftica from Europe? -Strait of Gibraltar
76. Which is the fastest growing tree? -Eucalyptus
77. Which tree require minimum water for its growth? -Babool
78. Which plain formed due to the weathering of lime stone? -Karst Plains
9. To an astronaut, how does outer space appear? -Black
80. Which river crosses tropic of Capricom twice? -Limpopo river
81. What is associated with a savanna climate?-Scrub
82. The Sivasamudram Falls is on which river? -Cauvery
83. Which Warm dry wind blows down the east slopes of Rockies? -Chinook
84. Which planet is known as veiled planet?-Venus
85. Which Strait which separates Asia from North America? -Bering strait
86. How many islands of India are located in the Bay of Bengal? -204
87. What happens when a sudden fall in the barometric reading? -Storm
88. Which country is the largest producer of Bauxite? -Australia
89. Which kind of forests is found in silent valley of Kerala? -Tropical Rain Forests
90. Which is the largest Ocean? -Madagascar
91. Inhow many time sn divided into? -24
92. Which soil is very  is very hard to cultivate? -Sandy soil
93. What separates Daman and diu ? -Guif of Khambat
94. Which connects t the continent? -Continental slope
95. Port Blair the capita icobat Islands, is located in which island? -South Andaman
96. Which is the State with the largest area under waste land? -Jammu & Kashmir
97. Which crop are grain with the on set of monsoon & are harvested in September October? -Kharif
98. Which river basin is called ‘Rub of India’? -Damodar
99. Which is considered to have an adverse effect on Indian Monsoon? -EINino
100. Which is the longest iniand waterways in the world? -Mississippi river system