1. Who invited Babar to invade India? -Alam Khan
2. Who attended the Second Round Table Conference as the representative of the Congress? -Mahatma Gandhi
3. Who was the member of ‘Din-llahi"? -King Birbal
4, With whom was the last opportunity to avoid the partition of India lost? -Cabinet Mission
5. Who is known as the ‘indian Bismark’? -Vallabh bhai Patel
6. Who named ‘Prayag Nagar’ as ‘Allahabad”? -Akbar
7. Who passed the Indian university Act? -Lord Curzon
8. By whom was Saka era founded? -Kanishka
9. Which Peshwas was popularly known as Nana-Saheb? -Balaji Baji Rao
10. Memories of Babur (Tuzk-eBabur) was written in which language? -Turkish
11. Who organised Ashwamedha Yajna in Gupta Period? -Samudragupta
12. Which group were related to ‘Tana Bhagat’ movernent? -Oran
13. Who was thrice elected President of the Indian National Congress? -Dadabhai Naoroji
14. Who, was the Nanda ruler at the time of Alexander’ invasion? -Dhana Nanda
15. Which Chola ruler converted the Bay of Bengal into a ‘Chela lake’? -Rajendra 
16. During which reign was Kalidasa lived? -Chandragupta Il
17. The Gayatri Mantra contained in the Rigveda is dedicated to which deity? -Savitri
18. Which ruler was known as Amitraghata, the ‘destroyer of foes"? -Bindusara
19. Under which suitan, Chalisa land increased considerably? -Alauddin Khilji
20. Which Mughal emperor's tomb is outside India? -Jahangir
21. Who was the first foreigner to invade India? -Darius |
22. Which was the God of animal during the later Vedic period? -Rudra
23. From where sufi movement was started? -Persi
24. By whom was the famouis'Kirti Stambha’ at Chittor built? -Rana Kumbha
25. Analects is sacred text of which religion? -Confucius Religion
26. Which Rajput dynasties did not surrender to Akbar? -Sisodiya
27. Which ruler at first assumed the title of ‘Hazrat-Ala' and afterwards ‘Sultan’? -Sher Shah Suri
28. Who is related to Sarvodaya and Bhoodan movement? -Acharya Vinoda Bhave
28. Which Sikh Guru called himself the ‘Sachcha Badshah?-Guru Hargobind
30. Which was capital of Raja Ranjit Singh of Punjab? -Lahore
31. High Courts in Calcutta, Mumbai and Madras were established in which year? -1861
32. What was the script used in the earliest Tamil inscriptions? -Brahmi
33. At which place did Mahatma Gandhi start his first Satyagraha in India? -Champaran
34. Who was the British PM at the time of Revolt of 1857? -Lord Palmerston
35. Who is considered to be the father of Ayurveda? -Charaka
36. Which Veda throws light on the beliefs and practices of the non-Aryans? -Atharvaveda
37. Who was called Zinda Pir (living saint) in Mughal India? -Aurangzeb
38. What was Sher Shah's real name? -Farid
39. Who earned the title of a ‘Liberator? -Ashoka
40. With whom did Alberuni come to India? -Mahmud of Ghazni
41. Who was the President of the Indian National Congress, while the Mountbatten Plan was accepted? -J.B. Keipalani
42. Who first voiced the idea of a separate Muslim state in India? -Mohammad Iqbal
43. Who founded ‘Bharat Sevak Samaj’ (Servants of Indian Society)? -Gopal Krishna Gokhale
44. Who had the Revenue system during Akbar’ reign? -Todarmal
45. Attack on ‘chittgaon arsenal’ was done in whose leadership? -Surya Sen
46. Who is associated with Tashkent Agreement? -Lal Bahadur Shastri
47. Who advocated the policy of abolishing princely states in free India? -L Nehru
48. Who was responsible for the integration of Indian Princely States? -Sardar Patel
49. In which year was the Muslim league founded? -1906
50. In which year did the Congress loose its monopoly of power in the States for the first time after the elections?-1967
51. Where there is no law, there is no freedom" who said this? -John Locke
52. Who was the famous Indo-Greek king who embraced Buddhism? -Menander
53. Who destroyed the group of Forty Nobles? -Balban
54. Who was the daughter of Emperor Aurangzeb? -Zebunnisa
55. Who was the first speaker of independent India? -GV. Maviankar
56. Where was first Madarasa set up by the British in India? -Calcutta
57. In India, where did the Dutch establish their earliest factory? -Masulipatnam
58. Who was the writer of ‘the Indian War of Independence”? -V.D.Savarkar
59. In which battle did Nadir shah defeated Muhammad Shah? -Karnal
60. By whom was the first muslim invasion of India lead? -Muhammad-binQasim
61. What is the subject matter of the Upanishads? -Religion
62. Who betrayed Sirajud-Daulah in the battle of Plassey in 1757? -Mir Jafar
63. A Fortgotten Empire’, written by the renowned historian Robert Sewell, is about which empire? -Vijayanagar Empire
64. Who proposed the name Pakistan"? -Chaudhary Ramat Ali
65. Who was the oldest British monarch to sit on the throne? -Elizabeth I
66. By whom was the first estimate of national income in India made? -Dadabhai Naoroji
67. Where did ‘Parallel government’ form during Quit India movement? -Baliya
68. During whose Viceroyalty, Queen Victoria was crowned with Kaiser Hind’ in Delhi Durbar? -Lord Lytton
69. Late Raja Ravi Verma, was an eminent figure in which field? -inting
70. Who stated that there was.no slavery in India? -Megasthenes
71. Who was the regent of Akbar? -Bairam Khan
72. By whom was the agitation against the partition of Bengal led? -Surendranath Banerjee
73. Who was the Mughal Emperor to have lifted the Jaziya on Hindus? -Akbar
74. Who is known as ‘the father of India's unrest’? -Bal Gangadhar Tilak
75. Which ruler had granted Diwani to the East India company? -Shah Alam It
76. Against whom did Gandhiji started Satyagraha movement in 1919 in protest?-Enactment of Rowlatt Act
77. Who was the first President of the Indian Trade Union Congress in 1920?-Lala Lajpat Rai
78. ‘Man-The Maker of His Own Destiny’ book was written by which person? -Swami Vivekanand
79. Whowas the first governor of Portuguese in India? -De Almeida
80. During which movement was Mahatma’ added before Gandhij's name? -Champaran
81. Whois the Father of local self government in India? -Lord Ripon
82. Who introduced Mansabdari system? -Akbar
83. By whom was the Indian Independence League set up? -Rasbihari Bose
84. On whichriver did Pulakesin ll defeat Harshavardhana? -Narmada
85. By whom was the city of Agra founded in 1504? -Sikandar Lodhi
86. Who deciphered Adhikansh Inscriptions for the first time? -dames Prinsep Salbai
87. By whom was the practice of Sati was declared illegal? -Lord William Bentick
88. Who was the Governor General when the first Anglo-Burmese was started? -Lord Amherst
89. Who was the first Indian Hindi scholar of the Mughal period? -Abdur Rahim
90. Quit India Movement started after the failure of which proposal? -Cripps’ proposal
91. Who wrote the song ‘Saare Jahan Se Acha’? -Muhammad Iqbal
92. When the East India Company came intoexistence,By whom was England was ruled?  -Tudors
93. Inwhich session was PURNA SWARAJ! adopted as it’s goal by INC? -Lahore Session
94. Who first started the civil servicesin India? -Lord Cornwallis
95. Attack on ‘chittgaon arsenat’ was done in whose leadership? -Surya Sen
96. Who is associated with Tashkent Agreement? -Lal Bahadur Shastri
97. In which year was the Muslim league founded?-1906
98. In which year did the Congress loose its monopoly of power in the States for thefirsttime afterthe elections? -1967
99. In which year Mahatma Gandhiwas first arrestedduring'Satyagrah’ -1908
100. Who among the following s thefirst EnglishmantobecomethepresidentofINC? -George Yule