1. (b) Guru Shikhar, a peak in the Arbuda Mountains of
Rajasthan, is the highest point of the Aravali Range. It rises to
an elevation of 1,722 metres.
Doddabetta is the highest mountain in the Nilgiri Hills at 2,637
metres. There is a reserved forest area around the peak. It is 9
km from Ooty, on the Ooty-Kotagiri Road in the Nilgiris district of
Tamil Nadu, India.
Anamudi or Anai Mudi is a mountain located in the Indian state of
Kerala. It is the highest peak in the Western Ghats and South
India, at an elevation of 2,695 metres, and a topographic
prominence of 2,479 metres.
Mount Dhupgarh or Dhoopgarh is the highest point in the
Satpura Range and in Madhya Pradesh, India. Located in
Pachmarhi, it has an elevation of 1,350 metres.
2. (d) India is located in eastern part of Northern hemisphere.
3. (a) High and dry winds would blow outwards from this high
pressure area when a high pressure develops over the North –
Western part of India.
4. (c) The Andaman Islands are an Indian archipelago in the Bay
of Bengal. These roughly 300 islands are known for their palmlined, white-sand beaches, mangroves and tropical rainforests.
Coral reefs supporting marine life such as sharks and rays make
for popular diving and snorkeling sites.
5. (c) Land heats and cools more rapidly than the sea. During the
day the land gets heated and the air over the land being hotter
and lighter than that over the sea, a low pressure area is created
over the land.The hot air rises and cool air from the sea reaches
in towards the land, which is referred as sea breeze.At night the
land rapidly loses its heat faster than the sea. The air over the
sea is therefore warmer and lighter than over the land and a
breeze blows but from the land towards the sea.
6. (b) The Inter tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ), known by
sailors as the doldrums, is the area encircling the earth near the
equator where the northeast and southeast trade winds
converge.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
7. (c) El Nino is the name given to the warm ocean currents along
the Pacific coast of South America that arise every few years at
about Christmas time. The El Nino phenomenon is a part of a
chain of meteorological events that extends from the eastern
Pacific to northern Australia, Indonesia and into the heartland of
India. There is a rather weak correlation between El Nino and
the Indian monsoon rains.
8. (c) Nilgiri Hills are a range of mountains with at least 24 peaks
above 2,000 metres (6,600 ft), in the Westernmost part of Tamil
Nadu state at the junction of Karnataka and Kerala states in
Southern India. They are part of the larger Western Ghats
mountain chain making up the southwestern edge of the Deccan
Plateau.
9. (b) The Himalayas are approximately 2400 km in length with
an average width of about 320 to 400 km. The Himalayas are
the enormous mountain system of Asia. They are the highest
mountain range found in the world.
10. (b) During the hot weather period i.e from March to May the
Eastern and North-eastern states of the subcontinent like West
Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Odisha (parts) and Bangladesh
experience dramatic appearance of a special type of violent
thunderstorm known as Nor’wester. In Bengal it is known as ‘Kal
Baisakhi’ or calamity of the month of Baisakh (April,15-May,15).
Apart from its destructive effects like sudden rise in wind speed,
lightning, thunder and hail the rainfall associated with the storm
although small in amount, is extremely helpful for the pre-Kharif
crops like jute, paddy, summer till and a large number of
vegetables and fruits and the sudden drop in temperature gives
relief after unbearable mid-day heat.
11. (c) Around September, with the sun fast retreating south, the
northern land mass of the Indian subcontinent begins to cool off
rapidly. With this air pressure begins to build over northern India,
the Indian Ocean and its surrounding atmosphere still holds its
heat. This causes cold wind to sweep down from the Himalayas
and Indo-Gangetic Plain towards the vast spans of the Indian
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Ocean south of the Deccan peninsula. This is known as the
Northeast Monsoon or Retreating Monsoon.
12. (d) Mawsynram is a village in the East Khasi Hills district of
Meghalaya state in north-eastern India, 65 kilometers from
Shillong.
13. (a) The general trend of arrival of southwest Monsoon in kerala
is last (3-4) days of May.
14. (a) Southwest Monsoon accounts for around 85% of India’s
total rainfill.
15. (c) Deccan traps are formed by vast outpouring of basic lava
from many linear fissures developed in the earth’s crust. This
outpouring was of quiet type and hence did not create any
volcanic domes. It just spread across the surface. This
outpouring was in many active stages followed by periods of
quiescence. This outpouring took place around 65 million years
ago when India was near present placed Madagascar and
during its movement towards north, it passed over Reunion
Hotspot. Presently this hotspot is dormant in nature. This
outpouring lasted for 5million years approx according to latest
study.
16. (a) The Coromandel Coast, is the southeastern coast of the
Indian Subcontinent between Kanyakumari and False Divi Point.
It may also include the southeastern coast of the island of Sri
Lanka.
17. (c)
18. (b)
19. (d)
20. (b) The region lies in the tribal belt of Orissa and Chattisgarh.
21. (c)
22. (b) Raman Peak is the name given to a submarine mountain
peak situated in the Arabian Sea.
23. (b) Anamudi is the highest peak of South India. It is situated at
an elevation of 2695 metres and located in kerala.
24. (a) Nathula pass is situated in Himalayas. It is near Indo-china
border in the Indian State, Sikkim.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
25. (a) Due to rain shadow area of Sahyadri the regions between
Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have become semi – arid.
26. (c) Dalhousie is in Himachal Pradesh, Darjeeling is in West
Bengal, Mussoorie is in Uttrakhand and Pahalgam is in Jammu
and Kashmir.
27. (b) It occurs from June to September. As Southwest Monsoon
approaches the withdrawal phase from a particular region,
certain conditions become prevalent. These include change of
wind pattern, reduction in cloud cover, and decrease in humidity,
cessation of rain or sporadic rain, and temporary rising tendency
of temperatures.
28. (a) Because it is a rain shadow region/area. This area have
relatively little precipitation due to the effect of a topographic
barrier, especially a mountain range, that causes the prevailing
winds to lose their moisture on the windward side, causing the
leeward side to be dry.
29. (c) Aravalli → Eastern Ghats → Deccan Plateau → Himalayas
30. (c) India is located in the middle of tropic of cancer.
31. (c) Zanskar or Zangskar is a subdistrict or tehsil of the Kargil
district, which lies in the eastern half of the Indian state of
Jammu and Kashmir. The administrative centre is Padum
Zanskar or Zangskar is a subdistrict or tehsil of the Kargil district,
which lies in the eastern half of the Indian state of Jammu and
Kashmir. The administrative centre is Padum.
The Pir Panjal Range is a group of mountains in the Inner
Himalayan region, running from east-southeast (ESE) to westnorthwest (WNW) across the Indian states of Himachal Pradesh.
The Dhauladhar range is a southern branch of the main Outer
Himalayan chain of mountains. It rises from the Indian plains to
the north of Kangra and Mandi.
32. (d) The Chota Nagpur Plateau is a plateau in eastern India,
which covers much of Jharkhand state as well as adjacent parts
of Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar and Chhattisgarh.
The Deccan Plateau is a large plateau in southern India. It rises
to 100 metres (330 ft). The rocks are spread over the whole of
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Maharashtra and parts of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.
Malwa Plateau spread in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and
Gujarat.
33. (a) Shipki La is a mountain pass and border post on the IndiaChina border. The river Sutlej, which is called Langqên Zangbo
in Tibet, enters India (from Tibet) through this pass. It is an
offshoot of the ancient Silk Road. It is located in Kinnaur district
in the state of Himachal Pradesh, India. Niti pass is in
Uttarakhand, Nathula pass is in Sikkim and Bomdi La is in
Arunachal Pradesh.
34. (a) Nathu La is a mountain pass in the Himalayas. It connects
the Indian state of Sikkim with China’s Tibet Autonomous
Region. The pass, at 4,310 m (14,140 ft) above mean sea level,
forms a part of an offshoot of the ancient Silk Road. Nathu
means “listening ears” and La means “pass” in Tibetan. On the
Indian side, the pass is 54 km (34 mi) east of Gangtok, the
capital of Sikkim. Only citizens of India can visit the pass, and
then only after obtaining a permit in Gangtok.
35. (c)
36. (a) In South India rainfall decreases from the Western Ghats
towards the East.
37. (b) India is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of
biodiversity. This natural variation in life is also reflected in the
demography of the land. Aravali hills is not the biodiversity hot
spot.
38. (c) Zoji La is a high mountain pass in Jammu and Kashmir,
India, located on the Indian National Highway 1D between
Srinagar and Leh in the western section of the Himalayan
mountain range.
Bara-lacha la also known as Bara-lacha Pass, or Bārā Lācha La,
is a high mountain pass in Zanskar range, connecting Lahaul
district in Himachal Pradesh to Ladakh in Jammu and Kashmir,
situated along the Leh – Manali Highway.
Jelep La or Jelep Pass, elevation 4,267 m or 13,999 ft, is a high
mountain pass between East Sikkim District, Sikkim, India and
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Tibet Autonomous Region, China. It is on a route that connects
Lhasa to India. The pass is 46 metres in length.
Niti is a small village in Niti valley of Joshimath. Niti is the last
village and outpost in Indo – Tibetan border in Chamoli district.
39. (a) South west monsoon are the main mechanism through
which nearly all Indian land mass experience rainfall. It
accounts for nearly 80% rainfall of whole India. Vast size of
Indian continent helps in developing the thermal gradient
necessary to attract the vapour laden air from sea. Very
high and extensive mountain systems of the Himalayas in
the north, extending in an east-west direction, thus posing a
formidable physical barrier between tropical and polar air
masses. These barriers induce the precipitation of water
from moisture laden air. As the air climb up the Himalayas
their moisture retention capacity decreases due to cooling
effect and this results into high rainfall.
40. (a) Pune is on the leeward side of the Western Ghats, it means
that it lies on rain shadow area. But Mumbai lies on the
windward side and receives heavy rainfall. Vidarbha region
experiences semi – arid climate as it is located in a rain shadow
region.
41. (a) The southwest monsoon brings rains towards the end of
summer as the high pressure built in the Indian Ocean pushes
the wind masses towards the low pressure formed on land. It’s
the temperature variation between the sea and the landmass –
sea air being cooler and land being warmer – that causes the
action. Also, we have to take an important factor called
Temperature Gradient into consideration. It is the Temperature
Variation Between The landmass and the surrounding sea.
42. (d) Zoji La-Jammu-Kashmir, Lipulekh-Uttaranchal, Shipki LaHimachal Pradesh, Nathu La-Sikkim.
43. (b) K2 is the 2nd highest peak in the world and is located in
Jammu & Kashmir.
Nanda Devi is the second highest mountain in India, and the
highest located entirely within the country. It is the 23rd-highest
peak in the world. It is in Uttrakhand.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
City - Earthquake zone
Kolkata - Zone III
Guwahati - Zone V
Delhi - Zone IV
Chennai - Zone II
Tara pahar is in Himachal Pradesh
Kangchenjunga, also spelled Kanchenjunga, is the third highest
mountain in the world, and lies partly in Nepal and partly in
Sikkim, India.
44. (a)
45. (d) Pir Panjal Range is concerned with lesser Himalayan
region. It includes Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir
and Kashmir (POK).
46. (b) All the given factors in the options (eg. location, thermal
contrast, upper air circulation and the Himalayan
mountains) are responsible for the monsoon type of climate
in India.
47. (b)
48. (a) Palghat Gap is a low mountain pass in the Western Ghats
between Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu and Palakkad in Kerala.
It allows inland communication from Madurai to
Thiruvananthapuram.
49. (b) The Tropic of Cancer 23°30’ N divides India into almost two
halves.
50. (a) The southwest Monsoon brings rains towards the end of
summer as the high pressure built in the Indian Ocean
pushes the wind masses towards the low pressure formed
on land. The southwestern summer Monsoons occur from
July through September. Northern and central Indian
subcontinent heats up during the hot summers. This causes
a low pressure area over the northern and central Indian
subcontinent. To fill this void, the moisture-laden winds from
the Indian Ocean rush in to the subcontinent. These winds,
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
rich in moisture, are drawn towards the Himalayas. The
Himalayas act like a high wall, blocking the winds from
passing into Central Asia and forcing them to rise. As the
clouds rise their temperature drops and precipitation occurs.
51. (b) The Palk Strait is situated between the Tamil Nadu and the
Mannar district of the Northern Province of Sri Lanka. It
connects the Bay of Bengal in the northeast with the Palk
Bay and thence with the Gulf of Mannar in the southwest.
52. (c) Godwin Austen (K2) is the highest peak in the given
options. It is the world’s second tallest peak It islocated in
the Karakoram range of the Himalaya in Northern Kashmir.
Its height is 8611m.
53. (a) Bangladesh shares longest border with India. Both
countries share a 4,096-kilometer) long international border.
54. (d) Coonoor hill station is situated in Nilgiris district of Tamil
Nadu.
55. (b) The Aravalli range are the oldest fold mountains in India.
56. (d) IST is Situated at 25.15⁰N 82.58⁰E
57. (c) Barren Island is located in the Andaman Sea. It is the only
confirmed active volcano in South Asia.
58. (c) The southeast trade winds in the southern hemisphere and
the northeast trade winds in the northern hemisphere meet
each other near the equator. The meeting place of these
winds is known as the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone
(ITCZ). In the month of July, the ITCZ shifts to 20°- 25° N
latitude and is located in the Indo-Gangetic Plain and the
South-West monsoons blow from the Arabian Sea and the
Bay of Bengal. NITCZ is the zone of clouds and heavy
rainfall.
59. (c) The Barail range Separates Manipur and Nagaland.
60. (b) The South Equatorial Current is a significant Pacific,
Atlantic, and Indian Ocean current that flows east-to-west
between the equator and about 20 degrees south.
61. (c)
62. (c) Kashmir region from North to South is Gilgit- Kargil- Sri
Nagar- Banihal
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
63. (c)
64. (b) Narmada valley builds the traditional boundary between
North India and South India and has structural origin.
65. (a) The rainfall distribution pattern over the Ganga basin
decreases from the West to east and North to South.
66. (a) El Nino is a warm ocean current. The term El Niño refers to
the large-scale oceanatmosphere climate interaction linked
to a periodic warming in sea surface temperatures across
the central and east-central Equatorial Pacific.
67. (a) Duncan Passage is a strait in the Indian Ocean. It
separates South and Little Andaman.
68. (a) Dharamsala is in Himachal Pradesh.It is known worldwide
for the presence of the Dalai Lama.
Almora is situated in Uttarakhand. Nainital is a popular hill station
also in Uttarakhand. The four famous lakes of Nainital are
Bhimtal Lake,Sattal, Khurpa Tal, Naukuchia Tal.Darjeeling is
situated in West Bengal. Darjeeling Himalayan Railwayis a
UNESCO World Heritage Site.
69. (c) The word Karewa in Kashmiri dialect means, “elevated
table-land.”It was used for an unconsolidated to semiconsolidated sand-clay-conglomerate sequence. The
Karewas in Kashmir valley are some 367 meters thick
lacustrine deposits. They cover the area between the
Jhelum alluvium in the north and Pir Panjal mountains in the
south.
70. (c) The Velikonda Range isa low mountain range that forms part
of the Eastern Ghats mountain range system.
71. (a) Stalagmite is a onical mineral deposit, usually calcite or
aragonite, built up on the floor of a cavern,formed from the
dripping of mineral-rich water.
72. (a)
73. (c) North Indian plain would have been much cooler in winter.
74. (d)
75. (a) India’s off shore and deep sea fish catch is very poor
considering the marine potential of 20-25 million tonnes because
Indian coast does not have many gulfs, bays, estuaries and
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
back waters as is the case with Norway. As such it lacks good
fishing grounds.
76. (d) In northern India, there is light rainfall during winter. This is
caused by the cyclonic storms which originate in the
Mediterranean Sea and travels towards India. These winds
are called western disturbances. They cause heavy snowfall
in the higher reaches of the Himalayas and rainfall in the
plains. They result in a cold wave in northern India.
77. (b) Karewas are lacustrine deposits (deposits in lake) in the
Valley of Kashmir and in Bhadarwah Valley of the Jammu
Division also known as Jhelum valley.
78. (c) Rajmahal hills of Jharkhand is the type area of this
province. Multiple layers of solidified lava made 608 m
(1,995 ft) thick Rajmahal hill. The chief characteristic of the
geology and rocks of India arid-zone is noticed in its
remarkable succession of pre-Cambrian rocks which go far
down towards the base of the Archaean. This sequence
commences for the Bundelkhand gneiss, which is one of the
oldest granites exposed anywhere upon the earth’ surface.
79. (d) Deserts, fertile plains and moderately forested mountains
are the characteristics features of North-Western India.
80. (a) In Thar desert the shifting sand dunes are locally known as
Dhrian.
81. (b) Jelep La or Jelep Pass elevation 4,267 m or 13,999 ft, is a
high mountain pass between East Sikkim District, Sikkim,
India and Tibet Autonomous Region, China.
82. (a) (a) is correct and statement II is the correct explanation of
statement I.
83. (d) Lakshadweep is about 220 to 440 Kms away from the cost
of Kerala, lying one of the world’s most spectacular tropical
Islands systems in a scattered group of 36 coral islands. All
these islands have been built up by corals and have fringing
coral reefs very close to their shores.
84. (d) Crystallisation is a form of mechanical weathering. It is
operative especially in arid climates. Due to dry weather,
moisture is drawn to the surface of rocks. Hydration is
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
another process which involves water, but there is no
chemical change whatsoever. Hydration causes granular
disintegration.
Frost action is also termed as synonymous with freeze-thaw
action.
85. (b) Doddabetta is the highest mountain in the Nilgiri Hills (Tamil
Nadu)at 2,637 metres.
The Vindhyas run across most of central India.
The Dhaulagiri massif in Nepal extends 120 km from the
Kaligandaki River west to the Bheri.
Mt. Kailash peak is standing in the remote south-west
corner of Tibet in the Himalayan Mountains.
86. (a)
87. (c) Cardamom hills are the most southern hills of India. It is
situated at the border of Kerala and Tamil Nadu.
88. (c) Fulhar Lake is situated at the coast of river Gomati is Pilbhit
district in Uttar Pradesh.
89. (a) Saddle Peak is the highest Peak of Andaman and Nicobar
Islands. It has a height of 732 metres.
90. (c) Narmada River flows through a rift valley.
91. (c)
92. (c) Mandav hills are located in Madhya Pradesh
93. (d) All the wetlands mentioned here are designated as Ramsar
sites of international importance as per International
wetland convention (Ramsar convention, Iran 1971)
94. (a) Coromandel coast is the southeastern coast region of
India.
95. (b) Geothermal Energy is the heat from the Earth. It is Clean
and sustainable. Resources of geothermal energy range
from the shallow ground to hot water and hot rock found a
few miles beneath the Earth’s surface.
96. (c) Kerala, amongst the given states gets the highest average
annual rainfall.
97. (c) Rohtang Pass connects the valley of Kullu with Spiti and
Lahaul.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
98. (d) Western disturbances are the basic reason of winter rainfall
in northwestern part of India.
99. (a) The maximum rainfall in India is received from south - West
monsoon.
100. (c) Himalayan mountain system is originated out of the Tethys
geosyncline.
101. (c) Himalayan is spread over 6 districts of Uttrakhand.
102. (c) Dharwar Rock System are the first metamorphic
Sedimentary rocks in India. The Dharwar Rocks are rich in
iron ore, manganese, lead, zinc, gold, silver etc.
103. (c) From geological history of the two main structural divisions
of India is Himalayan mountain chain, which is a part of
Laurasia/Angaraland and southern part called
Gondwanaland of which peninsular India formed one of the
blocks.
104. (c) Ajanta Mountain range is spread over only one State in
India.
105. (d) Kayal is a Lagoon of Kerala.
106. (b) Nathu La is a mountain pass in the Himalayas. It connects
the Indian State of Sikkim with China’s Tibet Autonomous
Region. The pass, at 4,310 m above mean sea level, forms
a part of an offshoot of the ancient Silk Road.
107. (a) The country’s total geographical area under the category of
wetlands is recorded more in Gujarat as compared to other
states. In India, the total geographical area of coastal
wetlands is not larger than that of inland wetlands.
108. (d)
1. Zoji La is a high mountain pass in Jammu and Kashmir, located
on the Indian National highway 10 Between Srinagar and
Leh.
2. Banihal Pass is a mountain pass across the Pir Panjal Range.
This mountain range connects the Kashmir Valley in the
Indian State Jammu and Kashmir to the outer Himalaya and
plains to the South.
109. (d)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Mountain Pass State
1. Zoji La JammuKashmir
2. Lipu lekh Uttarakhand
3. Shipki La Himachal
Pradesh
4. Nathu La Sikkim
110. (a) Someshwar Hilly Range occupy the North - Western part of
Bihar State.
111. (c) Parasnath is a mountain peak in the Parasnath Range in
the Giridih district of Jharkhand. Its height is 1365 metre.
112. (b) Coco channel - Narcondam Island - Barren Island - Little
Andaman
113. (a) Central Highlands (Vindhyan & Malwa Plateaus) are the
regions that separates the great plans of North India from
the plateaus and coastal plans of Deccan.
114. (b) Rajasthan dry region is a western dry region as classified
by Planning Commission.
115. (a) The Tarai region represents a marsh like landscapes
because it is a zone of seepage where the Lime Sand, Silt
and Clay are deposited by the emerging Streams.
116. (d) Himalayas have risen from the Tethys Sea when the Sea
got compressed.
117. (a) Kingri - Bingri, Neeti - Mana are Passes.
118. (d) In Uttarakhand, the ‘Kaliasaur Landslide zone’ is situated
between Sri Nagar and Rudra Prayag.
119. (d) As per koopen’s classification of climate, North East India
including North Bengal has Humid Sub - tropical climate
with dry winter.
120. (a) Bamdila pass is in Arunachal Pradesh.
121. (b) Aravali mountain range is the oldest mountain range in
India.
122. (d) Chattisgarh out of the given cities is not affected much by
the Arabian Sea branch of Monsoon.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
1. Nagaland,Kohima
2. Assam
3. W.Bengal
4. Odisha
5. Andhra Pradesh
6. Karnataka (or
Tamilnadu)
7. Kerala, Kottayam
Total seven
states.
123. (b) India has 4 seismic zones. An Indian seismic zoning map
assists one in identifying the lowest, moderate as well as
highest hazardous or earthquake prone areas in India.
124. (b) If you apply commonsense that Himalaya ought to be
passing through international border states only i.e. J&K,
Himachal, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunanchal Pradesh =
total 5 states. But we’ve to count the “eastern hills” also,
because they’re part of Himalayan system as per NCERT
Class 11 India- Physical Geography. So that’d cover
Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram et al so definitely more than
five states. Hence first statement is wrong.
Western Ghats are spread over six States: Gujarat (southern
part), Maharastra, Goa, Karnataka ,Kerala and Tamilnadu -
so 2nd statement is wrong.
By elimination we are left with Answer “B”.
125. (b) Let’s count the shortest route in the map
126. (c) The Narmada is one of the most famous Rivers of India. It
creates the conventional border between South India and North
India. The river runs to the west for a span of 1,312 km (815.2
miles) prior to flowing through the Gulf of Khambat (Cambey)
into the Arabian Sea, at a distance of 18.6 miles or 30 km west
of the Bharuch city in Gujarat. Also known as Rewa, it is a major
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
River in Central India . Similar to the Mahi River and the Tapti
River, the Narmada River is a river flowing from east to west.
127. (c) The river is chocked because the valley of a river is widest
in its lower course and the velocity of a river in its lower course
is low.
128. (a) The Son originates near Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh,
just east of the headwater of the Narmada River, and flows
north-northwest through Madhya Pradesh state before turning
sharply eastward where it encounters the southwest-northeastrunning Kaimur Range. The Son river at 784 kilometres (487 mi)
long, is one of the largest rivers of India. Its chief tributaries are
the Rihand and the North Koel.
129. (a) The Ganges is a trans-boundary river of India and
Bangladesh. The 2,525 km (1,569 mi) river rises in the western
Himalayas in the Indian state of Uttarakhand, and flows south
and east through the Gangetic Plain of North India into
Bangladesh, where it empties into the Bay of Bengal. It is the
third largest river in the World by discharge.
130. (d) The Kali Gandaki or Gandaki River is one of the major
rivers of Nepal and a left bank tributary of the Ganges in India. It
is also called Krishna Gandaki in Nepal.
131. (b) The Narmada, also called the Rewa, is a river in central
India and the fifth longest river in the Indian subcontinent. It is
the third longest river that flows entirely within India, after the
Godavari and the Krishna.
132. (a) The Luni is a river of western Rajasthan state, India. It
originates in the Pushkar valley of the Aravalli Range, near
Ajmer and ends in the marshy lands of Rann of Kutch in Gujarat,
after travelling a distance of 495 km.
133. (b) Saraswati River refers to a river, that was a distributary of
the Bhagirathi and is now no more there but was active till
around the 16th century AD. The course and condition of the
Saraswati has played an important role in the development and
decline of river port towns in Bengal. Initially, the major port town
was Tamralipta, after the decline of which Saptagram rose and
declined, and finally Kolkata came up.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
134. (d) Narmada
135. (a) Sambhar lake is the largest inland salt take in India. It is
situated in Rajasthan.
136. (a) Bhagirathi and Alaknanda rivers meet at DevPrayag and
downstream flow as Ganges.
137. (d) The Manas River is a major tributary of the Brahmaputra
River and flowing through Assam. It is named after “Goddess
Manasa”, the serpent God in Hindu mythology. The Manas River
is a trans-boundary river in the Himalayan foothills between
southern Bhutan and India.
138. (a) Loktak Lake is the largest freshwater lake in Northeast
India, and is famous for the phumdis floating over it. Keibul
Lamjao is the only floating national park in the world. It is located
near Moirang in Manipur state, India.
Pulicat Lake formerly Pralaya Kaveri is the second largest
brackish water lake or lagoon in India, after Chilika Lake. It
straddles the border of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu states
with over 97% of it in Andhra Pradesh and 3% in Tamil Nadu
situated on the Coromandal Coast in South India
Lonar Lake is a saline soda lake located at Lonar in Buldhana
district, Maharashtra, India, which was created by a meteor
impact during the Pleistocene Epoch and it is the only known
hyper velocity impact crater in basaltic rock anywhere on Earth.
Wular Lake is one of the largest fresh water lakes in Asia. It is
sited in Bandipora district in the Indian state of Jammu and
Kashmir. The lake basin was formed as a result of tectonic
activity and is fed by the Jhelum River.
139. (a) Damodar River is a river flowing across the Indian states of
West Bengal and Jharkhand. Rich in mineral resources, the
valley is home to large-scale mining and industrial activity. The
Brahmani is a major seasonal river in the Odisha state of
Eastern India. The Brahmani is formed by the confluence of the
Sankh and South Koel rivers, and flows through the districts of
Sundargarh, Deogarh, Angul, Dhenkanal, Cuttack and Jajapur.
The Mahanadi is a major river in East Central India. It drains an
area of around 141,600 square kilometres and has a total
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
course of 858 kilometres. The Tungabhadra River is a river in
India that starts and flows through the state of Karnataka during
most of its course, before flowing along the border between
Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
140. (a) Krishna – Bhima (The Bhima River is a major river in South
India. It flows southeast for 861 kilometres (535 mi) through
Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Telangana states, before entering
the Krishna River.)
Brahmaputra – Tista (The Teesta River originates in the
Himalayas and flows through the Indian States of Sikkim and
West Bengal before entering Bangladesh, where it flows into the
Brahmaputra.)
Godavari – Indravati (Indravati River This river is a stream of the
river Godavari. Its starting point is found to be the Ghats of
Dandakaranya range from a hilltop village Mardiguda of
Thuamula Rampur Block in the Kalahandi district of the state of
Odisha due to the amalgamation of three streams)
Yamuna – Chambal (The Chambal River is a tributary of the
Yamuna River in central India, and thus forms part of the greater
Gangetic drainage system. The river flows north-northeast
through Madhya Pradesh, running for a time through Rajasthan,
then forming the boundary between Rajasthan and Madhya
Pradesh before turning southeast to join the Yamuna in Uttar
Pradesh state.)
141. (b) The Teesta River is a 309 km long river flowing through the
Indian state of Sikkim. The Subansiri River is a tributary of the
Brahmaputra River in the Indian states of Assam and Arunachal
Pradesh, and the Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Lohit
River is a river in Arunachal Pradesh in India. It is a tributary to
the Brahmaputra River. Dibang River is a tributary river of the
Brahmaputra that flows through the northeast Indian states of
Arunachal Pradesh and Assam.
142. (b) Ganga – Gomti and Kosi. The Gomti, Gumti or Gomati
River is a tributary of the Ganga River. The Koshi or Kosi River
drains the northern slopes of the Himalayas in the Tibet
Autonomous Region and the southern slopes in Nepal.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
List-I
(River)
List-II
(Tributary)
A. Brahamaputra 4. Dikhow
B. Krishna 1. Musi
C. Narmada 2. Tawa
D. Kaveri 3. Bhawani
Indus – Chenab and Sutlej. The Chenab River is a major river of
India and Pakistan. It forms in the upper Himalayas in the
Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, India, and flows
through the Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir into the
plains of the Punjab, Pakistan. The Sutlej River is the longest of
the five rivers that flow through the historic crossroads region of
Punjab in northern India and Pakistan. The Sutlej River is also
known as Satadree. It is the easternmost tributary of the Indus
River.
Yamuna – Chambal and Ken. The Chambal River is a tributary of
the Yamuna River in central India, and thus forms part of the
greater Gangetic drainage system. The Ken River is one of the
major rivers of the Bundelkhand region of central India, and
flows through two states, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. It
is a tributary of the Yamuna.
Godavari – Wainganga and Indravati. The Wainganga is a river
of India, which originates about 12 km from Mundara village of
Seoni district in the southern slopes of the Satpura Range of
Madhya Pradesh. Indravati River is a tributary of the Godavari
River, in central India.
143. (b)
144. (a) A. Nanded town is situated on the banks of river
Godavari.
B. Nellore town is situated on the banks of river Penneru.
C. Hospet town is situated on the banks of river Tungbhadra.
D. Hyderabad town is situated on the banks of river Musi.
145. (b) Tista, Subansiri, Sankosh and Lohit are the tributaries of
river Brahmaputra.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Lake - Type
Ashtamudai
Kayal
- Lagoon
Himayat
Sagar
- Artificial
(Sweet
water)
Dal Lake - Residual
(Sweet
water)
Tsomgo
Lake
- Glacial
146. (a)
147. (d) Govind Ballabh Pant Sagar is on the Rihand River which is
the tributary of the Son River.
148. (a) The Luni is a river of western Rajasthan state. It originates
in the Pushkar valley of the Aravalli Range near Ajmer and
ends in Rann of Kutch in Gujarat.
149. (d) Narmada flows into the Gulf of Khambhat (Arabian Sea).
150. (d) Sambhar lake in Rajasthan is the largest salt water lake in
India.
151. (b) The Ten Degree Channel is a channel that separates the
South Andaman and Car Nicobar in the Bay of Bengal.
152. (d)
1. Ganga - Gaumukh
2. Son- Amarkantak
3. Godavari- Trimbakeshwar
4. Krishna- Mahabaleshwar
153. (b) Most of the Western flowing rivers travel lesser distance
than eastern flowing rivers before getting into the sea. On
way to Western coast through hard rocks and over higher
gradient, they couldn’t collect large amount of Slit and flow
with very high speed compared to East flowing rivers.
Eastern rivers flow through broken hills and mountain
ranges. So, they are widened and flow with lesser velocity
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
before entering into sea. So, they deposit sediments and silt
before entering into sea and can form a Delta.
154. (c) Fatehpur is not located on the banks of the sacred rivers
Ganges.
155. (b) Son, Mahanadi and Narmada rivers originate from
Amarkantak region.
156. (c) Tapti does not flow in to the Bay of Bengal. The river rises
in the eastern Satpura Range of southern Madhya Pradesh
and flows into the Gulf of Cambay of the Arabian Sea.
157. (a)
158. (c) Krishna river originates in the western ghats near
Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra. The Krishna river is around
1,290 km in length. It flows through the states of
Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh before
merging in the Bay of Bengal at Hamasaladeevi in Andhra
Pradesh.
159. (c) The origin of the river is a tiny reservoir named as
Narmada Kund which is situated on the Amarkantak Hill in
Anuppur District of East Madhya Pradesh. Amarkantak
region is a unique natural heritage area and is the meeting
point of the Vindhyas and the Satpuras, with the Maikal Hills
being the fulcrum.
160. (d) The Indus River originates near the Mansarovar Lake in the
Tibetan plateau, on the northern slopes of the Kailash
Mountain Range. Given below are the main tributaries of
the Indus River from north to south:
• Jhelum
• Chenab
• Ravi
• Sutlej
161. (c) Amaravati river is the longest tributary of Kaveri river.
162. (d) River Narmada emerges from Amarkantak Hill of Maikal
Range. The mighty Narmada river as well the Son, the
Mahanadi, and Arnadoh which is a major tributary of the
Godavari all arise in the Amarkantak plateau. Son river is
largest of southern tributaries of Ganga that originates near
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Amarkantak in Madhya Pradesh near the source of
Narmada River.
163. (b) Ashtamudi lake is situated in the Kollam District of Kerala
164. (d) Devprayag is located in Tehri Garhwal district in
Uttarakhand. At this place, Alaknanda and Bhagirathi rivers
meet and take the name Ganga.
165. (b)
166. (c) The river Godavari arises from the Nasik district of
Maharashtra. It has a length of 1465 km and after it
Krishna, Mahanadi, Narmada and Kaveri are the largest
river of peninsular India.
167. (d) The Kunchikal water falls in India has the most height. It
has almost a height of 455 meters.
168. (b)
169. (c) Lonar is in Maharashtra, Nakki in Rajasthan, while Pulicat
lave is situated in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
170. (a) Sutlej originates from Rakhastat lake in Tibet. Origin of
Ravi is Bara Bhangal (H.P), While that of Chenab and
Beas is Lahaul valley (H.P) and Himalaya region.
171. (a)
172. (a) National waterway-1 runs from Haldia to Allahabad
across the Ganges, Bhagirathi and Hooghly river
systems, covering an area of 1620 km.
173. (b) The Snow - covered Ghepan Lake is located in Himachal
Pradesh.
174. (b) River Ganga after entering Bangladesh is known by
Padma.
175. (c) Umiam Lake is in Meghalaya.
176. (d) The ‘Gurudongmar Lake’ named after Guru
Padmasambhava is one of the highest lakes in the world.
It is situated in the Indian state of Sikkim.
177. (c) The Gandak River, river in central Nepal and Northern
India is a left bank tributary of the Ganges in India.
178. (a) Bhilangana is not a tributary of Alaknanda. Bhilangana
River is a Himalayan River in Uttarakhand, India which is
a major tributary of the Bhagirathi River.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
List-I (Source Region) List-II (River)
(a) Brahmgiri Hills 1. Cauvery
(b) Vering Spring 2. Jhelum
(c) Mahabaleshwar 3. Krishna
(d) Chhota Nagpur
Plateau
4. Subarnarekha
List-I (Doab) List-II (Rivers)
179. (a) Kuhls are a traditional irrigation system in Himachal
Pradesh. They are surface channels diverting water from
natural flowing streams (khuds). A typical community kuhl
services 6 to 30 farmers, irrgating an area of about 20 ha.
180. (b) Kolleru lake is one of the largest freshwater lakes in India
located in the state of Andhra Pradesh. It is Located
between Krishna and Godavari deltas.
181. (c) Kosi is not associated with river Brahmaputra. It drains
the northern slopes of the Himalayas in Tibet and the
southern slopes in Nepal.
182. (e) The Tel river flows in Nabrangpur, Kalahandi, Balangir,
Sonapur District in Odisha : Tel is an important tributary of
Mahanadi.
183. (c) Yamunotri is the Source of Yamuna River and the seat of
the Goddess Yamuna in Hinduism.
184. (d) The Lodh Falls is a waterfall in a mid forest if Latehar
district. It is located on the Burha river.
185. (a) Rajrappa is a waterfall and a pilgrimage Centre in
Ramgarh, Jharkhand . It is situated on the confluence of
Damodar – Behera rivers.
186. (c) Godavari is the longest river in the Peninsular India.
187. (b)
188. (b) Devriya Tal is a pristine lake located near chopta.
189. (b) Eastern Dhauliganga (Poorvi Dhauliganga) is a tributary
of Kali River.
190. (a)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(a) Bist Doab 3. Between Beas
and Sattiy
(b) Bari Doab 2. Between Ravi
and Beas
(c) Rachna
Doab
1. Between Ravi
and Chenab
(d) Chaj Doab 4 Between
Chenab and
Jhelum
191. (c) Amravati, Bhavani, Hemavati and Kabini are tributaries of
the kaveri river.
192. (b) Govind Ballabh Sagar is located in Uttar Pradesh.
193. (d) The Tapti River is a river in Central India between the
Godavari and Narmada Rivers. It flows in rift valley.
194. (b) Kapildhara Falls are on river Narmada.
195. (c) River Kishanganga is in Jammu & Kashmir.
196. (d) Shifting cultivation is a type of farming where people make
temporary clearings in the forest to grow food. When the soil is
no longer fertile after two to three years, the shifting cultivators
abandon the field to look for another suitable plot of land. The
first field is left to fallow, or rest, while the cultivators begin the
cycle of activities on a new plot of land.The farmers may return
to the same plot of land after 20 to 30 years.
197. (c) In agriculture, multiple cropping is the practice of growing
two or more crops in the same piece of land during a single
growing season. It is a form of polyculture. It can take the form
of double-cropping, in which a second crop is planted after the
first has been harvested, or relay cropping, in which the second
crop is started amidst the first crop before it has been harvested.
A related practice, companion planting, is sometimes used in
gardening and intensive cultivation of vegetables and fruits. One
example of multi-cropping is tomatoes + onions + marigold; the
marigolds repel some tomato pests.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
198. (c) India is the largest producer and exporter of tea in the
world. The ideal climatic conditions for the production and
growing of tea are as follows:
• Temperature: 21°C to 29°C is ideal for the production of tea. High
temperature is required in summer. The lowest temperature for
the growth of tea is 16°C.
• Rainfall: 150-250 cm of rainfall is required for tea cultivation.
• Soil: Tea shrubs require fertile mountain soil mixed with lime and
iron. The soil should be rich in humus.
• Land: Tea cultivation needs well drained land. Stagnation of
water is not good for tea plants. Heavy rainfall but no stagnancy
of water, such mountain slopes are good for tea cultivation.
199. (b) The low productivity in India is a result of the following
factors:
• The average size of land holdings is very small (less than 2
hectares) and is subject to fragmentation due to land ceiling
acts, and in some cases, family disputes
• Adoption of modern agricultural practices and use of technology
is inadequate
• India has inadequate infrastructure and services.
• lliteracy, general socio-economic backwardness, slow progress in
implementing land reforms and inadequate or inefficient
finance and marketing services.
• Inconsistent government policy.
• Irrigation facilities are inadequate,
200. (a) Tea – Hill slopes with alluvial soil
Millets – Less fertile and sandy soil
Rice – Alluvial soil with clayey sub – soil
Coffee – well drained loamy soil
201. (b) Red soils are formed by weathering of the ancient
crystalline and metamorphic rocks. Their color is red due to their
very high iron content. They are found in areas of low rainfall
and are obviously less leached than laterite soils. They are
sandier and less clayey soils. Red Soil in India is poor in
phosphorus, nitrogen and lime contents. The red soil covers a
large portion of land in India. It is found in Indian states such as
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Tamil Nadu, southern Karnataka, north-eastern Andhra Pradesh
and some parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha.
202. (d) In an area with annual rainfall of more than 200 cm and
sloping hills will be the ideal for tea plantation.
203. (b) Black soil is formed due to Solid fication of lava spread
over large areas during volcanic activity in the deccan plateau.
The Soil is rich in iron and nitrogen. It is Suitable for cotton and
groundnuts.
204. (a) Monoculture is a distinct characteristic of commercial grain
farming. Monoculture is the agricultural practice of producing or
growing a single crop or plant species over a wide area and for
a large number of consecutive years.
205. (a) Millets and Rice are grown mostly under subsistence
farming. Subsistence agriculture is self-sufficiency farming in
which the farmers focus on growing enough food to feed
themselves and their families. The typical subsistence farm has
a range of crops and animals needed by the family to feed and
clothe themselves during the year.
206. (d) Dapog method of rice nursery was developed in
Philippines. The dapog method of raising seedling originated in
the Philippines and is now, fairly common in South and
Southeast. The dapog nursery is constructed for the raising of
seedlings without any soil whatsoever. Rice seeds contain
sufficient food in the endosperm to permit the young seedling to
grow for up to 14 days without receiving any outside nutrients
except air, water, and sunlight. Consequently, it is possible to
nurse seedlings without actually sowing them in soil.
207. (d) Red rot disease is caused by fungus and sugarcan is
afficted by it.
208. (c) Rice is produced under 15 - 25̊ C, Tea is produce under 30
– 40 ̊ C, Cotton is produced under 25 ̊ C while coffee is produce
under 20 ̊ C.
209. (a) Level terrace or contour bunding involves construction of
bind passing through the points having same elevation
ploughing and/or planting across a slope following its elevation
contour lines.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
210. (a) Subsistence farming, form of farming in which nearly all of
the crops or livestock raised are used to maintain the farmer and
the farmer’s family, leaving little, if any, surplus for sale or trade.
Preindustrial agricultural peoples throughout the world have
traditionally practiced subsistence farming. Some of these
peoples moved from site to site as they exhausted the soil at
each location. As urban centres grew, agricultural production
became more specialized and commercial farming developed,
with farmers producing a sizable surplus of certain crops, which
they traded for manufactured goods or sold for cash. Shifting
cultivation is an example of subsistence farming.
211. (a) The tank irrigation is practised mainly in the peninsular
India due to the following reasons
1. The undulating relief and hard rocks makes it difficult to dig
canals and wells.
2. There is little percolation of rain water due to hard rock structure
and ground water is not available in large quantity.
3. Most of the rivers of this region are seasonal and dry up in
summer season. Therefore, they cannot supply water to
canals throughout the year.
4. The scattered nature of population and agricultural fields also
favours tank irrigation.
212. (c) Rural forestry (also known as community forestry) aims to
raise the trees on community land and on privately owned land
as in farm forestry.
Farm forestry encouraged individual farmers to plant trees
on their own farmland to meet the domestic needs of the family.
All these schemes are taken up under the social forestry
programme.
213. (b) The factors responsible for the decrease of per capita
holding of cultivated land in India are
1. Rapid rate of increase of population.
2. Practice of dividing land equally among the heirs.
214. (a) Black soil becomes sticky when wet. It is deficient in:
Nitrogen, Phosphorous and organic matter and rich in Iron, lime,
calcium, potassium, aluminium and magnesium. Generally,
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
black soil is found in the central, western and southern states of
India.
215. (b) Black soil is a rich soil that is good for crops like cotton. It is
found in various places around the world. It is most abundantly
found in western central India, and also known as regur.
216. (a) Alkali, or alkaline, soils are clay soils with high pH (> 8.5), a
poor soil structure and a low infiltration capacity. Often they have
a hard calcareous layer at 0.5 to 1 metre depth. Alkali soils owe
their unfavorable physico-chemical properties mainly to the
dominating presence of sodium carbonate which causes the soil
to swell and difficult to clarify/settle.
217. (a) Black soil or Regur is Suitable for cotton production.
218. (a) Khadir or Khadar plains are those that are low-lying next to
a river. Khadir areas are prone to flooding and sometimes
include portions of former river beds that became available for
agriculture when a river changed course. Khadir soil consists of
new alluvial deposits and is often very fertile.
219. (b) Madhya Pradesh contributes more than 70% of the total
soyabean production in the country.
220. (b) Operation Flood in India, a project of the National Dairy
Development Board (NDDB) was the world’s biggest dairy
development program which transformed India, from a milkdeficient nation, the largest milk producer in the world,
surpassing the USA in 1998.
221. (b) Jhum or Jhoom cultivation is a local name for slash and
burn agriculture practised by the tribal groups in the
northeastern states of India like Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya,
Mizoram and Nagaland and also in the districts of Bangladesh
like Khagrachari and Sylhet. This system involves clearing a
piece of land by setting fire or clear felling and using the area for
growing crops of agricultural importance such as upland rice,
vegetables or fruits.
222. (b) The growth, development and adoption of new varieties of
oil seeds and complementary technologies nearly doubled oil
seeds production by the Technology Mission on Oil seeds,
brought about the Yellow Revolution.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
223. (b) Green Revolution refers to a series of research,
development, and technology transfer initiatives, occurring
between the 1940s and the late 1960s, which increased
agriculture production worldwide, particularly in the developing
world, beginning most markedly in the late 1960s.
224. (c) Wells are the principal source of irrigation. During the year
under review, open wells and tube-wells/bore-wells continued to
be the principal source of irrigation.
225. (a) In Punjab per hectare consumption of fertilizer is more than
240 kg. Which is highest among Indian states.
226. (b) Tea is the major cash crop.
227. (a) Khadar refers to the soil consists of new alluvial deposits. It
is very fertile in comparison to Bangar which is less fertile and
consists of older alluvial soil.
228. (d) The reasons for the high growth of sugar in south India are
higher per acre field of sugarcane, higher sucrose content of
sugarcane and longer crushing period.
229. (c) Laterite soils are found mainly in the states of Karnataka,
Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and the hilly regions of
Orissa and Assam. Laterite soil is rich in aluminium and iron,
formed in wet and hot tropical areas. Almost all laterite soils are
red due to the presence of iron oxides. It is prepared by the
prolonged and rigorous weathering of the parent rock.
230. (c) Laterite soil is rich in aluminium and iron, formed in wet and
hot tropical areas. Almost all laterite soils are red due to the
presence of iron oxides. It is prepared by the prolonged and
rigorous weathering of the parent rock.
231. (b) A fazenda is a plantation found throughout Brazil; during
the colonial period they were concentrated primarily in the north
eastern region, where sugar was produced, expanding during
the 19th century in the south eastern region to coffee production.
Pondu is a traditional Congolese recipe for a classic stew of
cassava leaves (saka-saka)
232. (b) The state of Assam is the world’s largest tea-growing
region, lying on either side of the Brahmaputra River, and
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
bordering Bangladesh and Myanmar. This part of India
experiences high precipitation; during the monsoon period, as
much as 10 to 12 inches (250–300 mm) of rain per day. The
daytime temperature rises to about 96.8F (36 °C), creating
greenhouse-like conditions of extreme humidity and heat. This
tropical climate contributes to Assam’s unique malty taste, a
feature for which this tea is well known.
233. (b) Gujarat. The total geographical area of Gujarat is
19,602,400 hectares, of which crops take up 10,630,700
hectares. The three main sources of growth in Gujarat’s
agriculture are from cotton production, the rapid growth of highvalue foods such as livestock, fruits and vegetables, and wheat
production.
234. (c) Underground water level is less in peninsular region of
India and high in North region of India.
235. (a) Kerala is the largest producer of natural rubber producing
595 thousand tonnes or 92 per cent of total rubber production of
India in 2002-03. Kottayam, Kollam, Ernakulam, Kozhikode
districts produce practically all the rubber of this state. Tamil
Nadu is the second largest producer of rubber but lags far
behind Kerala producing only 22 thousand or 3.39 per cent of
the total Indian production in 2002-03. Nilgiri, Madurai,
Kanyakumari, Coimbatore and Salem are the chief rubber
producing districts of Tamil Nadu.
236. (d) Arunachal’s rich and colorful orchids find a place of pride.
Out of about a thousand species of orchids in India, over 600
are to be found in Arunachal alone. Hence this state can rightly
be called the “Orchid Paradise” of our country. These are
colorful, spectacular and some bear exotic names such as SitaPushpa and Draupadi-Pushpa which were believed to have
been worn by Sita and Draupadi for ornamentation. Many of
these orchids are rare, endangered and highly ornamental with
long-lasting flower qualities. Amongst the orchids as many as
150 species are ornamental and commercially important.
237. (b) The alluvial soil is spread all over the plains of north India.
They are also found in the four delta regions of the south. Strips
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Tea — Assam, West
Bengal, Tamil Nadu
Jute — West Bengal, Bihar,
Assam, Orissa
Rubber — Kerala, Tamil Nadu,
Karnataka
Tobacco — Andhra Praesh,
Gujarat, Karnataka,
Tamil Nadu
Farming - State
of alluvium occur along rivers in the plateau as well as in the
mountains. Alluviums are mainly loams, i.e. mixtures of sand
and clay.
238. (a) Jhum (Shifting) cultivation is a primitive practice of
cultivation in States of North Eastern Hill Region of India and
people involved in such cultivation are called Jhumia. The
practice involves clearing vegetative/forest cover on land/slopes
of hills, drying and burning it before onset of monsoon and
cropping on it thereafter. After harvest, this land is left fallow and
vegetative regeneration is allowed on it till the plot becomes
reusable for same purpose in a cycle. Meanwhile, the process is
repeated in a new plot designated for Jhum cultivation during
next year.
239. (c)
240. (d) Chief Producer States
241. (c) Laterite soil is characterized by the possession of iron
oxides with red colour. Nitrogen, Phosphorus and potash
are not present in proper quantity so it shows low fertile
texture. Tapioca and cashewnuts are generally grown in
such soil. This soil is found loss or more in states- Odisha,
Maharashtra, Andhra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Meghalaya
and West Bengal.
242. (b)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
area
Doab - Punjab
Char - Assam
Maidan - Karnataka
Terai - Uttar
Pradesh
243. (c) Mixed farming is an agrarian system that mixes arable
farming with the raising of livestock. When on a farm alongwith crop production, some other agriculture based practice
like poultry, dairy farming or bee keeping etc. is adopted
then this is known as mixed farming.
244. (a) The shaded area in the map is major cotton producer
states in India. Cotton producing states in India are Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu etc.
245. (c) Sorghum is a genus of plants in the grass family. One
species is grown for grain and many of which are used as
fodder plants. Millets are a group of highly variable smallseeded grasses, widely grown around the world as cereal
crops or grains for fodder and human food. Thus, Sorghum
is categorized as millet.
246. (b) Jute Mills are highly concentrated in Hugli Basin (West
Bengal) because
This industry requires a lot of water which is easily available from
the Hugli River.
Iron and coal which are required for the installation and running
of jute factories are also available from the nearby mines of
Raniganj.
Jute is the crop of hot and humid climate. It requires high
temperature varying from 24°C to 35°C and heavy rainfall of
120 to 150 cm with 80 to 90 per cent relative humidity
during the period of its growth.This type of climate is found
in West Bengal.
247. (a) In agriculture, leaching refers to the loss of water-soluble
plant nutrients from the soil, due to rain and irrigation. The
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
rate of leaching increases with the amount of rainfall, high
temperatures, and the removal of protective vegetation. In
areas of extensive leaching, many plant nutrients are lost,
leaving quartz and hydroxides of iron, manganese, and
aluminium. This remainder forms a distinctive type of soil,
called laterite.
248. (c) Avoidance of flood and drought prone areas for agriculture
would not be sustainable in this respect.
249. (c) Cash crops are those which are produced for the purpose
of generating cash or money. The products are therefore
intended to be marketed for profit.Sugarcane and coffee are
cash crops which provide immediate cash to farmers.
250. (b) These species of cotton are as follows.
i. Gossypium arboreum, commonly called tree cotton, is a
species of cotton native to India, Pakistan and other
tropical and subtropical regions of the Old World.
ii. Gossypium herbaceum, commonly known as Levant cotton,
is a species of cotton native to the semi-arid regions of
sub-Saharan Africa and Arabia.
iii. Gossypium hirsutum is the most widely planted species of
cotton in the United States.
iv. Gossypium barbadense is also known as extra long staple
(ELS) cotton. Varieties of ELS cotton include American
Pima, Egyptian Giza, and Indian Suvin etc.
251. (d) The main objectives of the watershed management
strategy of India are to restore the ecological balance by
harnessing, conserving and developing degraded natural
resources such as soil, vegetative cover and water.
252. (b) Farmers are advised to mix lime with soil while farming
their fields because it increases the pH of acidic soil (the
higher the pH the less acidic the soil); in other words, soil
acidity is reduced and alkalinity increased.
253. (c) Red soils develop in a warm, temperate, wet climate under
deciduous forests and have thin organic and mineral layers
overlying a yellowish-brown leached layer resting on red
layer made of iron oxide(ferric oxide). Red soils generally
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
form from iron-rich sediments. They are usually poor
growing soils, low in nutrients and humus and difficult to
cultivate.
254. (b) Capillary water is retained on the soil particles by surface
forces. It is held so strongly that gravity cannot remove it
from the soil particles. The molecules of capillary water are
free and mobile and are present in a liquid state. Plant roots
are able to absorb it. Capillary water is, therefore, also
known as available water.
255. (a) Large scale exploitation of ground water is done with the
help of tube wells. Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan receive
less than 40 cm annual rainfall and are deficient in surface
water resources. As such, these states exploit more than 85
per cent of the available ground water for irrigation. The
demand for ground water for irrigation started increasing in
Punjab and Haryana with the advent of Green Revolution in
1960s. States/union territories with small replenishable
ground water resource of less than one BCM/year are Goa,
Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim,
Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar
Haveli, Daman and Diu, Delhi, Lakshadweep and
Pondicherry.
256. (d) India has the world’s largest cropped and irrigated
area.The cropping pattern of foodgrains in India is
dominated by cereal crop.The average size of an Indian
farm holding is below 2 hectares which constitute almost
80% of all Indian farmers.
257. (a) In the semi arid tropical region of India tanks are
constructed mainly in south and central India due to shallow
ground water.
258. (a)
259. (a) Both the statements are individually true and statement II is
the correct explanation of statement I. Plantation agriculture
is confined within tropical areas, i.e. both sides of the
equator. Plantations exist on every continent possessing a
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
tropical climate. Highly productive soil is found in the tropics
which help plantation to grow.
260. (d) Regur is a black soils are found in lava-covered areas of
Maharashtra, Saurashtra, Northern Karnataka, etc. and this
soil is very good for cotton.
261. (a) Lime makes the Soil alkaline.
262. (b) Castor plants are not used for rearing of silkworms. Castor
oil has many uses in medicine and other applications.
263. (d) Mulches are materials placed over the soil surface to
maintain moisture and improve soil conditions. Mulching
has proven to be an effective soil conservation practice,
reducing both wind and water erosion during the winter
period.
264. (c) In India, Jute (corchorus spp) is produced in West Bengal
(Ist rank}, Bihar and Assam mainly. Jute grow well in loamy
soils under hot and humid conditions-as ideal climatic
condition. Generally Maize/Moong/Urd (spring season)-
Jute-Rice crop rotation is followed, while Jute Rice-Wheat
rotation is followed on less amount.
265. (a) Calcium Ammonium Nitrate (CAN) fertilizer is almost
neutral and can be safely applied even to acid soils. Its total
nitrogen (N) content is higher and may vary from 25 to 28%
N content. Half (12.5% N) of this total nitrogen is in the
ammonical form and rest half (12.5% N) in nitrate form. This
is a good fertilizer applied in Agriculture.
266. (d) The organic farming practics is ecofriendly.
267. (a)
268. (d)
269. (b)
270. (b)
271. (b) Black soil rich in iron oxide, alumina but very low in humus,
phosphates and nitrogen. Also named as regur and best
soil for cotton cultivation.
272. (b)
273. (c) Green revolution refers to the increased production of food
grains mainly wheat using high yielding reed varieties and
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(i) China 30.35% mh
(ii) India 43.20% mh
(iii) Indonesia 12.16% mh
(iv) Philippines 04.50% mh
(v) Japan 01.062 mh
increased use of fertilizers and providing better irrigation
facilities.
274. (d) Organic farming is defined as an integrated farming system
that strives for sustain ability, the enhancement of soil
fertility and biological diversity whilst, with rare exceptions.
Prohibiting synthetic pesticides, antibiotics, synthetic
fertilizers, genetically modified organisms and growth
hormones.
275. (d) Tea, Coffee, Coconut, Rubber are some of the types of
‘Plantation Crop’.
276. (d) Crop Rotation is the practice of growing a series of
dissimilar or different types of crops in the same area in
sequential seasons.
277. (a) Kharif crops are cultivated and harvested during the
months of April and October.
278. (b) Area under rice cultivation cultivated Area—
279. (c) The Blue Revolution envisages transformation of the
fisheries sector with increased investment, better training
and development of infrastructure on the lines of white
revolution which transformed India’s dairy sector.
280. (a) ‘Pusa Sindhu Ganga’ is a variety of wheat.
281. (a) The plants that are grown for green manure known as
green manure crop. Dhaincha is one of the most important
green manure crop.
282. (a) Golden rice is a variety of rice (Oryza sativa) produced
through genetic engineering to biosynthesize beta-carotene,
a precursor of vitamin A, in the edible parts of rice.
283. (d) Purpose, Person, Productivity Planning all are the main
principle of agriculture finance.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
284. (c) Saffron (Kesar) Farming in Aligarh which is a plain region is
district in Uttar Pradesh.
285. (c) Bigha is the traditional unit of land measurement in UP.
286. (d) The major rabi crop in Indian is wheat, followed by barley,
mustard, sesame and peas. Peas are harvested early, as
they are ready early : India markets are flooded with green
peas from January to March, peaking in February.
287. (a) Laterite is a soil and rock type rich in iron and alumincium,
and is commonly considered to have formed in hot and wet
tropical areas. It is mostly found in Karnataka.
288. (c) The introduction of high - yielding varieties of seeds after
1965 and the increased use of fertilizers and irrigation are
known collectively as the Green Revolution, which provided
the increase in production in food grains.
289. (c) Masoor is not a kharif crop. It is grown in Rabi Season
(October - march).
290. (d) Cloves are the aromatic flower buds of a tree in the family
myrtaceae, Syzygium aromaticum. They are native to the
Maluku Islands in Indonesia.
291. (a) An agriculture museum has recently been inaugurated at
the ‘Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwa vidyalaya is Situated at
Raipur Chattisgarh.
292. (c) Vegetables are the major cash crop of Uttarakhand.
293. (d) Manduwa, Paddy, Jhangora are Kharifs Crops sown in the
period of July - October.
294. (b) G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology was
founded in 1960, first agriculture university of the nation,
was named in the memory of Govind Ballabh pant.
295. (d) A self-mulching soil is a soil that mixes itself its surface
layer shrink and swell farming deep cracks. This property of
soil belongs to Black Soil.
296. (b) Annual rainfall of 100 cm is the highest limit of wheat
cultivation. Wheat producing area confine to sub - humid
and semi - arial areas in India.
297. (c) Jammu - Kashmir is the only state which produces saffron
in India.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
298. (b) Triveni Canal systems irrigate area of Bihar.
299. (c) Cash crop is a crop produced for its commercial value
rather than for use by the grower. Jowar is not a cash crop.
300. (c)
301. (d) In mixed farming practices ‘Baranaja’, twelve or sometimes
more crops are intercropped. A combination of cereals,
lentils, vegetables, creepers and root vegetables are grown.
No external chemical inputs are given and pests are
controlled by using leaves of walnut and neem, and the
application of ash and cow’s urine. This system of biodiverse farming helps maintain the ecological balance, and
even if some crop Varieties fail or get damaged due to pests
or adverse weather conditions, the farmer can benefit from
the other crops.
302. (b) NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development) established on 12 July, 1982, is an apex
institution in rural credit structure provides refinance
facilities to agriculture and various such financial
institutions, which provide loans to promote productive
activities in rural areas in India.
303. (d) In India, presently the size of marginal land holding is less
than 1 hectare (i.e. 2 ½ Acre), which is caused by
increasing population and growth in urbanization.
304. (b) ‘Wheat + Mustard’, is an example of ‘Parallel Cropping’
because both these crops are of Rabi reason (Winter
Season) i.e., C3 crops, which are sown and harvested in
one season at a distance of few days, ‘Wheat + Mustard’ in
6 : 1 row ratio as a mixed crops are generally grown.
305. (b) In Chhattisgarh State, the maximum area under horticulture
Sector was of vegetable,
306. (d) Organic Manures are natural products used by farmers to
provide food for the crop plants. Vermiculture, composting,
Animal Excreta, cow dung, urine and plant waste are
associated with organic manure.
307. (b) Shusk Samrat is a variety of rice.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
308. (b) The Indira Gandhi Canal is one of the largest canal projects
in India. It starts from the Harike Barrage at Firojpur, a few
kilometers below the confluence of the Satluj and Bears in
Punjab and terminates in the Thar Desert in the North-West
of Rajasthan.
309. (b) The soil of kerala is rich in Laterite soil. It is a soil rich in
iron and aluminium and forms in hot and wet tropical areas.
310. (a) The term ‘Blue Revolution’ refers to India’s focus on
aquaculture and water reform. Things like drinking water
and fish farmaring are addressed in the policy changes that
comprise the Blue Revolution.
311. (a) Tropical rainforests of India are found in the Andaman and
Nicobar Islands, the Western Ghats, which fringe the
Arabian Sea, the coastline of peninsular India, and the
greater Assam region in the north-east. Small remnants of
rainforest are found in Odisha state.
Monsoon forest – Uttar Pradesh and Bihar
Thorny bushes - The Thorn Forests and Scrubs are found in
regions where the rainfall is less than 70cm. The vegetation in
these forests is thorny trees and bushes. The Thorn Forests are
found in the semi-arid areas of Gujarat & Rajasthan.
Tidal forest – Sunderbans
312. (c) Tropical Rain forest – Bamboo, Cinchona and Forest
Mahogany
Tropical Deciduous – Neem, Teak, Shisham and Sal
Mountain Forest – Pine, Deodar and spruce
Thorn Forest - Kikar, Babul, Date, Palm
313. (b) A national park is a park in use for conservation purposes.
Often it is a reserve of natural, semi-natural, or developed land
that a sovereign state declares or owns. Although individual
nations designate their own national parks differently, there is a
common idea: the conservation of ‘wild nature’ for posterity and
as a symbol of national pride.
The biosphere is the global ecological system integrating all
living beings and their relationships, including their interaction
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
with the elements of the lithosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere,
and atmosphere.
314. (a) Moist Deciduous →Dry deciduous →Wet evergreen
→Semi – evergreen.
315. (a) Mahogany – Tropical Evergreen forest
Shisham – Tropical deciduous forest
Eucalyptus – Temperate evergreen forest
Citrus fruits – Mediterranean vegetation
316. (a) Teak and Sal are products of tropical dry deciduous forests.
The tropical and subtropical dry broad leaf forest biome, also
known as tropical dry forest, is located at tropical and
subtropical latitudes. Though these forests occur in climates that
are warm year-round, and may receive several hundred
centimeters of rain per year, they have long dry seasons which
last several months and vary with geographic location. These
seasonal droughts have great impact on all living things in the
forest.
317. (c) Tropical evergreen forests (or tropical rain forests) are
usually found in areas receiving more than 200 cm of rainfall
and having a monthly mean temperature of 18°C or higher in the
coldest months. They occupy about seven per cent the Earth’s
land surface and harbour more than half of the planet’s
terrestrial plants and animals. Tropical evergreen forests are
dense, multi-layered, and harbour many types of plants and
animals.
Tropical deciduous forest in India receive rainfall between 100
cm to 200 cm. Deciduous means “falling off at maturity” or
“tending to fall off”, and it is typically used in order to refer to
trees or shrubs that lose their leaves seasonally (most
commonly during autumn) and to the shedding of other plant
structures such as petals after flowering or fruit when ripe.
Dry forests typically are found in very warm regions in the tropics,
where the mean annual temperature is greater than 17C (63F),
and where rainfall is in the range of 50 to 100 cm per year.
Arid forest receives less than 50cm rainfall.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
318. (a) Uttarakhand or formerly Uttaranchal, is a state in the
northern part of India.
319. (a) Assam is a northeastern state of India. Its capital is Dispur,
located within the municipal area of Guwahati city. It has an area
of 78550 km2
.
320. (b) Dachigam National Park is located 22 kilometers from
Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir. It covers an area of 141 square
kilometers.
321. (a) Rhinoceros often abbreviated as rhino, is a group of five
extant species of odd-toed ungulates in the family
Rhinocerotidae. Two of these species are native to Africa and
three to Southern Asia.
322. (c) The Western Ghats or the Sahyadri constitute a mountain
range along the western side of India. It is a UNESCO World
Heritage Site and is one of the eight “hottest hotspots” of
biological diversity in the world.
323. (a) Jatropha is a genus of flowering plants in the spurge family,
Euphorbiaceae. The name is derived from the Greek words
meaning “physician,” and “nutrition,” hence the common name
physic nut.
324. (b) It is a confluence of different bio – geographical zone.
325. (d) The Agasthyamalai Biosphere Reserve was established in
2001 and includes 3,500.36 km² of which 1828 km² is in Kerala
and 1672.36 km² is in Tamil Nadu. Agasthyamalai Biosphere
Reserve became part of World Network of Biosphere Reserves
in 2016.
Dibru-Saikhowa National Park is a national wildlife park in
Tinsukia, Assam, India. Dibru-Saikhowa National Park is located
at about 12 km north of Tinsukia town of Assam covering an
area of 350 km².
Dihang-Dibang or Dehang-Debang is a biosphere reserve
constituted in 1998. It is in the Indian state of Arunachal
Pradesh. The Mouling National Park and the Dibang Wildlife
Sanctuary are located fully or partly within this biosphere
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
reserve. The reserve spreads over three districts: Dibang Valley,
Upper Siang, and West Siang.
Nokrek National Park, or Nokrek Biosphere Reserve, is a
national park located Approximately 2 km from Tura Peak in
West Garo Hills district of Meghalaya, India. UNESCO added
this National park to its list of Biosphere Reserves in May 2009.
326. (c) Ranthambore National Park is a vast wildlife reserve near
the town of Sawai Madhopur in Rajasthan, northern India. It is a
former royal hunting ground and home to tigers, leopards and
marsh crocodiles.
327. (a) Ranthambore National Park is one of the biggest and most
renowned national park in Northern India. The park is located in
the Sawai Madhopur district of southeastern Rajasthan, which is
about 130 km from Jaipur. The park is majorly famous for its
panthers and is one of the best locations in India to see the
majestic predators in its natural habitat. The panthers can be
easily spotted even during the day time busy at their ordinary
quest- hunting and taking proper care of their young ones.
328. (c) Periyar (Kerala), Kanha (M.P.), Sariska (Rajasthan),
Dachigam (J.K.) is the correct sequence from south to north.
329. (d) Manas - Assam
Panchmari – Madhya Pradesh
Nokrek – Meghalaya
Achanakmar – Amarkantak – Chhattisgarh
330. (a) The Dudhwa National Park is a national park in the Terai of
Uttar Pradesh, India, and covers an area of 490.3 km², with a
buffer zone of 190 km². It is part of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve.
Kanha National Park, also known as Kanha Tiger Reserve, is a
vast expanse of grassland and forest in the central Indian state
of Madhya Pradesh. Tigers, jackals and wild pigs can be spotted
in Kanha Meadows.
Indravati Tiger Reserves is a Tiger Reserve area in Chhattisgarh.
Bandipur National Park, an 874-sq.-km forested reserve in the
southern Indian state of Karnataka, is known for its small
population of tigers.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
331. (b) Jim Corbett National Park is the oldest national park in
India and was established in 1936 as Hailey National Park to
protect the endangered Bengal tiger. It is located in Nainital
district of Uttarakhand and was named after Jim Corbett who
played a key role in its establishment. The park was the first to
come under the Project Tiger initiative.
332. (d) Mangrove are found in Karnataka, scrub in Rajasthan, teak
in Madhya Pradesh while coniferous in Arunachal Pradesh.
333. (b) The Eastern Highlands moist deciduous forests is a tropical
moist broadleaf forest of east-central India. It covers an
area of 341,100 square kilometers extending across
portions of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand,Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, and
Telangana states.
334. (d) The Nanda Devi National Park is a national park situated
around the peak of Nanda Devi(7,816 m) in Uttarakhand.
335. (a) According to 2011 Forest Survey of India. Mizoram has
third highest total forest cover with 1,594,000 hectares and
highest percentage area (90.68%) covered by forests,
among the states of India.
336. (c) Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary is located in Karnataka.
337. (c) Kanha National Park belongs to tropical moist dry
deciduous forest. It is a tiger reserve of India and the largest
national park of Madhya Pradesh.
338. (a)
339. (a) Western ghats – Tropical evergreen
Himachal Pradesh – Himalayan moist forest
Haryana and Punjab – Tropical thorny forest
Chhotanagpur Plateau – Tropical moist deciduous
340. (a) is correct and statement II is the correct explanation of
statement I .
341. (a)
342. (d) 82°30’ E has been taken as the standard meridian in India.
343. (c) Western ghats spreadover parts of Tamil Nadu, Kerala,
Karnataka and Maharashtra are rich in bio-diversity due to
presence of evergreen forests.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
344. (c) Goa has a large area covered under protected mangrove
region.
345. (d) Pin Valley National Park is a National park of India located
within the Lahaul and Spiti district, in the state of Himachal
Pradesh, in far Northern India.
346. (a) The marine National Park is located in Gulf of Kutch.
347. (d) The largest reserves of Sal forest is found in Assam.
348. (b) The valley of flowers is located in Garhwal Himalaya.
349. (d) Littoral and Swamp Forests are not found in Western Ghat.
350. (c) The ‘Black Buck National park’ is situated in the Indian
State of Gujarat.
351. (a) Nilgiri is the first Biosphere Reserve formed in 1986.
352. (d) Keibul Lamjao National Park
1. The park was initially declared as a sanctuary in 1966, to
preserve the natural refuge of the endangered Brow -
antlered Deer Sangai.
2. The Keibul Lamjao, the only floating National Park in the world
and located near Moirang in the Bishnupur district of
the state of Manipur.
3. It was established as a National Park in the year of 1977.
353. (c) Nilambur Teak, which has been granted Geographical
Indication Status has its origin in the State of Kerala.
354. (b) Bhitarkanika Mangroves are in the state of Odisha.
355. (b) Bandipur is a National Park located in the South Indian
State of Karnataka.
356. (b) Great Indian Bustard is found in Gujarat, Rajasthan and
surrounding areas, facing stress due to habitat destruction.
357. (a) In state of Jharkhand, the forests categorized as ‘Reserve
forest’ prohibits all activities unless permitted.
358. (d) According to biogeographic characteristic which deals the
study and distribution of species, organism and eco-system
in Geographic Space, following bio geographic regions have
been delienated in India. (1) Trans Himalayas, (2)
Himalayas, (3) Desert, (4) Semi-arid, (5) Western Ghat, (6)
Deccan plateau, (7) Gangentic plain, (8) North-East Zone,
(9) Coastal zone, (10) Islands present near the shore.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
359. (c) In the altitudinal range between 3400 metre and 4500
metre in the Himalayas, Alpine forest is found. There are
human interference in them.
360. (c) In Uttarakhand, Oak - Rhododendron are characteristic
plants of Temperate forest.
361. (c) Mizoram has the highest forest cover with 88.93 per cent of
the total area among all the states and Union Territories.
362. (a) The loss of forest cover in India has been directly
associated with Demographic Transition in India and the
forest cover is generally negatively related with population
growth.
363. (d) The Bhitarkanika Mangroves are a mangrove wetland in
India’s Odisha state. The Bhitarkanika Mongroves cover an
area of 650 km2
in the river delta of the Brahmani and
Baitarani rivers.
364. (b) Adivasis – Madhya Pradesh
Moplahs – Kerala
Todas – Nilgiri Hills
Angamis – Manipur
365. (c) Amount of rainfall and the fertility of soil are the factors
which influence the density distribution of population in India.
366. (b) Total Population of Daman and Diu is 2.43 Lakhs as per
census 2011. Literacy rate in Daman and Diu is 87.10 percent
while sex ratio is 618 females per 1000.
367. (b) As per census 2011 the child sex ratio (0-6 years) is 919
and thus a decline from previous census data.
368. (a) In 2011 the sex ratio was 943 and showed an upward trend
from previous data of 933 female per thousand male.
369. (a) The highest literacy rate was in kerala (93.9%).
370. (c) Arunachal pradesh is the least dense populated state
(17/km2
).
371. (a) The percentage of literacy in India was 74.04% as per
census, 2011.
372. (a) According to the State Census 2011, the most populated
state in India is Uttar Pradesh with a population of 19.96 crores.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Second comes Maharashtra with population of 112,374,333 and
thirdly Bihar having population 104,099,452.
373. (a) The Lepchas are the aboriginal inhabitants of Sikkim and
they are mostly settled in North Sikkim. They are mostly
Buddhist but many of them have now adopted Christianity. The
lepcha folklores are melodious and contain lots of interesting
folk stories.
The Mal Paharia people are a tribal people of Jharkhand.
Paharia Mal or Mal Paharia is listed as Scheduled Tribe by the
Government of Jharkhand. As per 2001 census, the Mal
Paharias number around 115,093 in Jharkhand.
Gond tribes spread in MP Chhattisgarh.
Bhils tribes of India are the largest tribe of South Asia. They are
commonly found in state of Rajasthan and Gujarat.
374. (a) According to 2011 census the growth rate of people have
declined as there is the rise in literacy rate i.e. 73%.
375. (c) Population growth rate of Nagaland was -0.58 percent
during the 2001-2011 periods which is the lowest. Dadra and
Nagar Haveli District recorded increase of 59.22 percent to its
population compared to 1991 which is the highest.
376. (a) Kerala has the highest literacy rate of 93.91%, after that
Himachal Pradesh with 83.78%, Tamil Nadu with 80.33% and
then Manipur with 79.85%.
377. (a) Hindi is spoken by 53.60%, Bengali by 8.86%, Telugu by
8.26%, Marathi by 8.16%, Tamil by 6.49% and Urdu by 5.74%
378. (c) In general, impact of economic growth in an economy on
the population will show following behaviour, High rate of birth
and High rate of deaths - Low population growth (underdeveloped), High rate of birth and Low rate of deaths - High
population growth (developing), Low rate of birth and Low rate of
deaths - Low population growth (developed)
379. (b) The year 1921 is a “year of the great divide” in the
demographic history of India when mortality started to decline
leading to acceleration in the rate of population growth. During
the next three decades (1921-51) the rate of population growth
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
continued at a level of over one per cent per annum. The slight
dip in the growth rate in 1941-51 partly reflects the Bengal
famine of 1942-43 and dislocation, due to the partition of India in
1947.
380. (a)
381. (d) Reang or Riang are one of the 21 scheduled tribes of the
Indian state of Tripura. The correct nomenclature for this ethnic
group is actually Bru although the name reang was accidentally
incorporated by the Indian government during a census count.
The Dimasa people are a group of people inhabiting Assam
states in North eastern India. Dimasa mythology says that they
are the children of Bangla Raja (Earthquake God) and the great
divine bird Arikhidima.
The Konyak are a Naga people, and are recognised among other
Naga by their tattoos, which they have all over their face and
hands; facial tattoos were earned for taking an enemy’s head.
They are called the land of Angh’s. They have the largest
population among the Nagas.
The Mishmi or Deng people of Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh are
an ethnic group comprising mainly three tribes: Idu Mishmi;
Digaro tribe, and Miju Mishmi.
382. (b)
1. The Apatani - are a tribal group of people living in the Ziro valley
in the Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. Bhutia people live particularly in Sikkim.
3. Gond people are a Dravidian people of central India spread
over the states of Madhya Pradesh, eastern
Maharashtra (Vidarbha), Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh,
Telangana and Western Odisha.
4. The Meetei people are an ethnic group of Kangleipak
(Manipur).
383 (d)
384. (d) Demographic gap is the difference between birth rate and
death rate that develops when a country undergoes
demographic transition.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
385. (b) The onges, a negrito tribe is inhabiting the Little Andaman
Island in Andaman District. The Onges are pure huntergatherers. They are not aware of agriculture.
386. (a) Matrilineal descent is a kinship system where a descent
group traces its ancestral lineage via the maternal (uterine)
side of the group. The property passes from mother to
daughter. Women are dominant in the family. The examples
of matrilineal societies are Khasi and Jaintia tribes of
Meghalaya.
387. (b) Population dividend or Demographic dividend refers to a
period - usually 20 to 30 years - when fertility rates fall due
to significant reductions in child and infant mortality rates. It
occurs when the proportion of working people in the total
population is high because this indicates that more people
have the potential to be productive and contribute to growth
of the economy.
388. (b)
389. (b)
390. (a)
391. (c) Jaunsaris and Todas tribes of India practise polyandry
custom.
392. (a) Bhils are largest tribe of India.
393. (c)
394. (a) Chhattisgarh with sex ratio of 960 and Haryana with 834
are high are lowest among these four states.
395. (b) As per census of India 2011 about 17% of world population
resides in India.
396. (c) Tamil nadu with 48.45% of urban population leads the
country w.r.t urban population density.
397. (d) Lakshadweep is the U.T. with highest female literacy rate
(88.25%).
398. (d)
399. (d) Total fertility rate is the number of children who would be
born per woman (or per 1000 women) if she/they were to
pass through the childbearing years. TFR of India is 2.4.
400. (c) Gender Gap in literacy Rate 2011—
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(a) Mizoram : 4.00
(b) Kerala : 4.00
(c) Meghalaya : 3.10
(d) Nagaland : 6.70
(a) Bihar : 31.49%
(b) Gujarat : 11.43%
(c) Rajasthan : 9.44%
(d) Uttar Pradesh : 20.25%
401. (a) Majuli is the most populous island of India.
402. (c) Total Population in 2011 : 1210.6 Million Working age
population in 2011 (15-59 years) : 729.9 million
Old age population in 2011 (60 + yrs) : 103.8 million Old age
dependency Ratio
= 14.22%
403. (d) Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of tribal people in
census of India 2011. (14.7%)
404. (a) Growth Rate in Literacy during 2001–11—
405. (a) 59.29% percentage of the population in the age group 20
years and above out of the total population of India as per
2011 census.
406. (a) Bhotia tribe of uttarakhand is mainly involved in the sheep
rearing.
407. (c) The Rapid growth phase of Indian population was from
1951–1981.
408. (a) Urban growth denotes the net population increase of town
and cities.
409. (c) Population density is a measurement of population per unit
area or unit volume. It was 382 according to 2011 census.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
List-I (General
terms) List-II (Definitions)
(a) Crude
birth rate
4. Ratio between
the number of
births and total
population
(b) General
fertility rate
3. Ratio between
number of births
and number of
410. (c) The Toda people are a small pastoral tribal community who
live on the isolated Nilgiri Plateau in hilly areas of Southern
India.
411. (d) Infant mortality rate is defined as the number of deaths of
infant per 1000 live births under a year of age.
412. (a) Among the given states, Arunachal Pradesh has lowest
density of population.(17/Km2
)
413. (d) According to 2011 census, urban to rural population was
about 31:69.(31.1% and 68.8%)
414. (c) As per census 2011, Bihar ranks number III in terms of
population in the country.
415. (a) The Dravadian races are mainly confined to the South
India.
416. (b) As per census 2011, Haryana has the lowest Sex - ratio
87.7%.
417. (b) The percentage of decadal growth of population during
2001 - 2011 as per census 2011 is 17.64%.
418. (c) According to the census 2011, Kerala had the best sex
ratio of 1084 females for 1000 males.
419. (a) A social institution called ‘Dhumkaria’ belongs to Oraon
tribe. It is an Adivasi Group inhabiting various state across
central and eastern India.
420. (d) Asuri language has become extinct from the Adivasi tribe
of Jharkhand.
421. (a)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
females in
productive age
(c) Natural
increase of
Population
1. Births over
deaths per
thousand of
Population
(d) Death rate 2. Number of
deaths per
thousand of
Population
State Population
(2011)
Maharashtra 112,374,333
Bihar 104,099,452
Gujarat 60,439,692
Uttar Pradesh 199,812,341
State Population Density
(2011) (Per Sq.
km)
422. (a) Rudraprayag districts of uttarakhand has the lowest
population as per 2011 census.
423. (b) Meghnad festival is celebrated in the month of Phalgun by
Gond tribe.
424. (a) Demographic transition is a gradual change in the manner
of population growth occuring over a long period of time.
425. (a) The population of Uttar Pradesh is 199, 812, 341 which is
16.5% of the total population of India.
426. (d)
427. (c) The census of India is carried out every 10 Years. The
population of India has changed over the period of ten
years.
428. (a)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Uttar Pradesh 828
Bihar 1102
West Bengal 1029
Kerala 859
State Urban
Population
Kerala 47.70%
Tamil Nadu 48.40%
Mizoram 52.11%
Goa 62.17%
City Population
(2011)
Mumbai 16,434,386
Delhi 12,877,470
Bengaluru 5,701,446
Kolkata 13,205,097
429. (d) Census 2011 was the 15th Census of India since 1872.
The motto of census 2011 was ‘Our census, our future’.
430. (a)
431. (d)
432. (b) Limonite is an iron ore consisting of a mixture of hydrated
iron (III) oxide-hydroxides in varying composition chalcopyrite is
ore from which copper is extracted. Bauxite is an aluminium ore
while Monazite is a primary ore of several rare earth metals like
thorium. Thorium can be used as replacement of uranium.
433. (b) Geo-thermal energy is Renewable energy. It is heat energy
generated and stored in the earth. The Geo-thermal energy of
the earth’s crust originates from the original formation of the
planet and from radio - active decay of materials
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
434. (d) Fossil energy sources, including oil, coal and petroleum,
are non-reneable resources that formed when prehistoric plants
and animals died and were gradually burued by layers of rock.
435. (a) Coking coal or metallurgical coal is an essential ingredient
for production of Steel.
436. (c) Dalli-Rajhara is a city and a municipality in Balod district in
the state of Chhattisgarh, India. Dalli Rajhara is home of iron ore
captive mines for Bhilai Steel Plant, the largest integrated steel
plant in India. Kuduremukha is a mountain range and name of a
peak located in Chikkamagaluru district, in Karnataka, India.
Badam Pahar is an Iron mine located in Odisha. Noamundi is a
census town in Pashchimi Singhbhum district in the Indian state
of Jharkhand. It is also an administrative block. It is a small
mining town located close to the Odisha border. It lies near to
Jamshedpur and 64 km from Chaibasa.
437. (c) Mining is removal of valuable raw material from the Earth,
this terms includes removal of soil. India adds very little value to
the minerals, it exports most of the mined minerals.
Indian Mining Industry has been a major mineral producer in Asia
and globally as well.
438. (a) Bauxite, an aluminium ore, is the world’s main source of
aluminium. It consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite Al(OH)3
,
boehmite γ-AlO(OH) and diaspore.
439. (d) Digboi is a town and a town area committee in Tinsukia
district in the north-eastern part of the state of Assam, India.
Crude oil was discovered here in late 19th century.
440. (b) The rocks of the Dharwar system are mainly sedimentary in
origin, and occur in narrow elongated synclines resting on the
gneisses found in Bellary district, Mysore and the Aravalis of
Rajputana. These rocks are enriched in manganese and iron ore
which represents a significant resource of these metals.
441. (a) Khetri Nagar is a town in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan in
India. It is part of Shekhawati region. Khetri is actually two
towns, the first “Khetri Town” was founded by Raja Khet Singhji
Nirwan.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Coal – Karanpura.
Gold – Hutti
Mica – Nellore
Manganese – Bhandara
442. (b) The production of chrome ore and chrome concentrate has
been fairly consistent in the last 5 years. Bangur Chrome ore
Mine is the first and only underground mine of Odisha.
443. (d) Most of India’s crude oil reserves are located in the western
coast (Mumbai High) and in the northeastern parts of the
country, although considerable undeveloped reserves are also
located in the offshore Bay of Bengal and in the state of
Rajasthan.
444. (c) Rajasthan is blessed with two critical resources that are
essential to solar power production: high level of solar radiation
per square inch and large amounts of contiguous, relatively flat,
undeveloped land.
445. (d) The Jaduguda Mine is a uranium mine in Jaduguda village
in the Purbi Singhbhum district of the Indian state of Jharkhand.
446. (b)
All these are names of mines of different minerals in different
places in India.
447. (b) Bauxite : Palamu (Jharkhand) Kaira (Gujarat), Kanti,
Jabalpur (M.P.) salem (Tamilnadu), Kolhapur (Maharashtra)
Copper : Singhbum, Hazaribagh (Jharkhand), Khetri Alwer,
Bhilwara, Jhunhunu, Sirohi (Rajasthan)
Coal : Raniganj (West Bengal) Thariya, Bokaro, Giridiih
(Jharkhand), Desgarh, Talcher (Orissa) Singreni (A.P.)
Iron Ore : Sanai, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar (Orissa),
Singhbhum, Hazaribagh, Palamau (Jharkhand).
448. (b) Odisha is the largest producer of bauxite in the country and
contributes about one-third of the total production.
Andhra Pradesh: This is the second largest producer and
accounts for nearly 25% of India’s mica. The main belt lies in
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Nellore district and is 97 km long and 24-30 km wide.
Madhya Pradesh has become the largest producer of copper in
India surpassing Karnataka, Rajasthan and Jharkhand in
succession.
Rajasthan is endowed with the largest resources of lead-zinc ore
amounting to 88.6%.
449. (b) Raniganj Coalfield is primarily located in the Asansol and
Durgapur subdivisions of Bardhaman district in the Indian state
of West Bengal.
Tata Steel has captive coal mines at Jharia & West Bokaro, in the
state of Jharkhand, located within 200km from Jamshedpur.
Bishrampur coal mines are located in Chhattisgarh.
Adilabad district is a district located in the northern region of the
Indian state of Telangana. It is the gateway district to the South
India. Adilabad is the administrative seat of the district. The
district is currently a part of the Red Corridor.
450. (b) Solar energy, water and fisheries come in the category of
renewable resource and coal, crude oil and natural gases
are non-renewable one.
451. (d) Vishakhapatnam does not have a gold field.
452. (b) The Digboi refinery was set up in 1901 by Assam Oil
Company Ltd.It is situated in upper Assam district of
Tinsukia. Digboi oilfield has the oldest running oil well in the
world.
453. (d) Anthracite has higher percentage of Carbon. It has a
carbon content of over 87% on a dry ash-free basis.
454. (b) About 80% of the manganese production in India comes
from Balaghat District of Madhya Pradesh.
Katni (Madhya Pradesh) is famous for Bauxite mines.Singrauli
Coalfield is spread across the districts of Singrauli(Madhya
Pradesh). Most of the coal is dispatched to pithead power
plants as Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station, Rihand
Thermal Power Station and Vindhyachal Thermal Power
Station etc.
Kalol in Gujarat is famous for its oil fields.
455. (a) Koyli- Gujarat
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
List – I List –II
(Region) (Mineral)
A. Badam Pahar 2. Iron ore
B. Kodarma 4. Mica
C. Mosabani 1. Copper
D. Ravva 3. Petroleum.
A. Gold 2. Kolar
B. Coal 4. Jharia
C. Copper 1. Khetri
D. Iron 3. Kudremukh
Trombay- Suburb of Mumbai
Jamnagar- Gujarat
Mangalore- Karnataka
456. (c)
457. (b)
458. (a)
459. (b)
460. (c) Mica–Gutur (Andhra Pradesh)
Chromite – Namakkal and Tiruchengode (Tamil Nadu)
Magnesite – Hindustan Produce Company (Kolkata)
Zinc – Zawar (Rajasthan)
461. (b)
462. (c) Chhattisgarh is the second most coal producing state. It
have 15% coal quantity of the country while it produces
16% coal of the country. The main coal field of North
Chhattisgarh includes Chirmiri, kursia Bishrampur, Ghilmili,
Sonhat, Lakhanpur Sendouorgarh and Ramkola.
463. (d) Correct Matching will be as following.
464. (d) Correct matching will be as following :
465. (a)
466. (c)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
467. (b) Ukai dam constructed across river Tapti is the largest
reservoir in Gujrat. Patratu dam was constructed to store
water of Nalkari river in Jharkhand. Dabhol Power station is
located in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra. Satpura thermal
plant is located in Betul district of M.P.
468. (c) In India, Coal is found in the geological formation of
Gondwana.
469. (d) Gold is found at Hutti, Kolar and Ramgiri regions of India.
470. (a) Bagheshwar, Pithoragarh, Chamoli are the combinations of
the districts of magnesite depoists in Uttarakhand.
471. (d) Jharkhand, Orissa and West Bengal States accounts for
about 90% of the annual coal production in India.
472. (d) Balaghat is known for its Manganese production. About
80% of Manganese production of the country comes from
Balaghat. Majhgaon is known for its diamond mines, which
is situated in the Panna District of Madhya Pradesh.
473. (d) The copper Industry is located at Khetri. Khetri Nagar is a
town in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan in India.
474. (a) Haematite Iron ores is mined at Bailadila.
475. (c) Black revolution is related to the crude oil production.
476. (d) Turamdih Uranium deposit is located about 24 km west of
Jaduguda.
477. (c) Betonite depoists in Jharkhand are found in Sahibganj
district.
478. (c) Chiriya located in W. Singhbhum is famous for Iron Ore
Mining.
479. (a) National resources are those resources that exist in a
region and can be used also in future. The development of
an actual natural resource depends upon the technology
and cost of production.
480. (b) With total milk production in India in reaching beyond 127.9
million tonnes, India is the largest milk producing country in the
world.
481. (b) Tuticorin is known as “Pearl City” due to the pearl fishing
carried out in the town. It is a commercial seaport which serves
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
the inland cities of Southern India and is one of the sea
gateways of Tamil Nadu.
482. (c) Coffee production in India is dominated in the hill tracts of
South Indian states, with the state of Karnataka accounting for
more than 50 % of total production.
483. (d) Availability of power and raw material for textiles along with
skilled labour facilitated growth of textile industries in western
India.
484. (b) The Gujarat Refinery is an oil refinery located at koyali in
Gujarat, western india, It is the second largest refinery owned by
Indian oil corporation after panipat Refinery. The refinery is
currently under projected expansion to 18 MMTPA.
The Mathura Refinery, owned by Indian Oil Corporation is located
in Mathura, uttar Pradesh. The Refinery process low sulphur
crude from Bombay High imported low sulphur crude from
Nigeria and high Sulphur crude from the Middle East.
The Refinery is in Haldia near Kolkata (west Bengal). The
fuel sector was built French Collaboration and the lube
sector with Romanian Collaboration. The Refinery Capacity
of the Refinery was increased to 2.75 MMTPA in 1989
debottlenecking measures.
Bongaigaon Refinery is an Oil Refinery and Petrochemical
Complex located at Bongaigaon in Assam. It was
announced in 1969 and construction began in 1972.
485. (b) India is the largest producer of jute goods in the world. The
jute industry is second most important industry in India. India
produces 35% of all jute in the world. Hugli basin is located in
Western, due to its dry climate, if is convenient for spinning and
weaving.
486. (c) A. Namrup has a Fertilizer plant.
B. Vishakhapatnam has a steel plant.
C. Perambur has a integral Coach factory.
D. Renukoot has an Aluminium plant.
487. (a) Aluminium : Alwaye (Kerala), Asansol (West Bengal),
Renukoot (U.P.), Belur (Karnataka), Hiradud (Orissa).
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Petrochemical : Indian Refineries Ltd (Barauni) Bihar
Noohamati (Assam), Koyali oil Refinery, Koyali (Gujrat),
Cochin oil Refinery Kochi (Kerala).
Cotton Textiles : Ahmedabad (Gujarat) Bangalore,
Mumbai, Kolkata, Coimbatore (Tamilnadu), Kanpur (UP),
Ludhiana and Amritsar (Punjab), Indore (MP).
Heavy Electricals : Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd Ranipur
Hardwar (Uttrakhand), Jagdishpur (U.P.)
Heavy Electricals India Ltd (Bhopal)
488. (b) Goundnut cultivation is done mostly in Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Karnataka and
Maharashtra.
489. (d) Durgapur Steel Plant is located in Durgapur (West Bengal.)
It was Set up in the late 1950s with assistance from United
Kingdom. It is one of the integrated steel plants of Steel
Authority of India Limited.
490. (b)
1. Narora(Uttar Pradesh)- 2 × 220 MW
2. Kaiga(Karnataka)- 4 × 220 MW
3. Rawatbhata(Rajasthan)- 1 × 100 MWe;1 × 200 MWe; 4 ×
220 MWe
4. Tarapur (Maharashtra)- 1400 MW
491. (a) The correct sequence is Kochi- Mangalore- Mumbai- Koyli
492. (c) The correct sequence is Thiruvananthapuram- CochinCalicut- Mangalore
493. (b) Sriharikota does not have a heavy water plant. Satish
Dhawan Space Centre is a rocket launch centre located in
Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh.
494. (a) Kota petrochemical industry is the most westward located
in India.
495. (a)
496. (a) Vishakhapatanam is the deepest landlocked port in India.
497. (a) Kochi Refinery was set up on 27th April, 1963.
Koyali Refinery was built with Soviet assistance and went on
stream in October, 1965.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Port Special Feature
1. Kandla Tidal Port
2. Kochi Located at mouth of
Lagoon
3. Vishakapatnam Deepest land-locked
protected port
4. Kolkata Inland riverine port
List-I (Place) List-II (Industry)
Panipat Refinery was set up in 1998 at Baholi Village in Distt.
Panipat, Haryana.
Mathura Refinery was commissioned in January, 1982.
498. (c) Gujarat is blessed with the longest coastline of 1600 km.
Summers (March through May) are quite hot, however, with
temperatures typically rising well above 100 °F (38 °C)
during the day and dropping only into the 90s F (low 30s C)
at night, Gujarat is drier in the north than in the south.
Rainfall is lowest in the northwestern part of the state-in the
Rann of Katch. The coastline of Gujarat includes two, gulf
areas Gulf of Katchh and Gulf of Khambat.
499. (a)
500. (c) Punjab, Haryana and Western U.P. have derived maximum
benefit from the green evolution.
501. (a) Jamnagar is not the port town of Gujrat while others are
port towns of Gujarat.
502. (a)
503. (d)
504. (b) Dharwa Rocks are highly metamorphosed sedimentary rock
- system, found in abundance in the Dharwar district of
Karnataka. Economically, the most important rocks.
505. (c) Uttar Pradesh is the largest milk Producer of India.
506. (b) Dahej is a non - major port.
507. (b)
508. (d)
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
i. Bengaluru Aircraft
ii. Korba Aluminium
iii. Jamshedpur Iron and Steel
iv. Malaj Khand Copper
Districts Product
Aligarh — Locks
Firozabad — Bangles
Moradabad — Brass Utensils
Tanda — Powerloom
Products
509. (c) Bhagalpur is a town situated on the banks of the river
Ganga in the state of Eastern Bihar. It is famous for its
unique Silk fabrics called ‘Tusser’.
510. (d) Bharat Wagon and Engineering Limited is a Public Sector
Undertaking of the Government of India and is a subsidiary
of Bharat Bhari Udyog Nigam. It is situated at Mokama.
511. (b) The state that has the largest number of cotton textile mills
in India is Maharashtra.
512. (c) Bihar sponge Iron plant is located at chandil near
Jamshedpur, Jharkhand.
513. (a) Ranchi district is the largest producer of lac in Jharkhand.
514. (d) Bokaro Steel plant is located in Bokaro district of
Jharkhand. It was Constructed with Collaboration of Russia.
515. (b) Electricity generation is given the highest weight in the
‘Index of Eight Core Industries’.
516. (c) From the Powerloom sector, largest quantity of cotton
textile is produced in the country.
517. (b)
518. (c) Bangladesh and India share a border of 2,429 miles. The
Bangladeshi Divisions of Dhaka, Khulna, Rajshahi, Rangpur,
Sylhet and Chittagong, along with the Indian states of West
Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram are situated
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
along the border. A number of pillars mark the border between
the two states.
519. (a) The Andaman and Nicobar Islands are a group of islands
at the juncture of the Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea, and are
a Union Territory of India. It has a total area of 8,073 km².
520. (c) The Coromandel Coast is the southeastern coast of the
Indian Subcontinent between Kanyakumari and False Divi Point.
It may also include the southeastern coast of the island of Sri
Lanka.
521. (b) The Radcliffe Line was published on 17 August 1947 as a
boundary demarcation line between India and Pakistan upon the
partition of India.
522. (c) Chhattisgarh is the 10th largest state in India, with an area
of 135,190 km². With a population of 25.5 million, Chhattisgarh
is the 16th most-populated state of the nation.
523. (c) Tripura is Surraunded by Bangladesh from its north, south
and western side.
524. (d)
525. (c) McMohan line is a border line between India and china.
526. (d) Vidarbha is the eastern region of Maharashtra.
527. (a) Indira point, situated on Great Nicobar Island in the Nicobar
Islands is the Southern most point of India.
528. (c) Badrinath is situated on the banks of river Alaknanda.
529. (b) Meghalaya shares the border only with Bangladesh.
Meghalaya and Bangladesh share a 443 kilometres long border,
358 km of which is fenced and the work is still going on for
complete fencing. The border is not continuously patrolled and is
porous.
530. (d) The largest desert in the world is the Sahara Desert, a
subtropical desert in northern Africa. It covers a surface area of
about 3.5 million square miles.
531. (a) Uttar Pradesh → Andhra Pradesh → Maharashtra →
Madhya Pradesh
532. (c) Valley town is in Dehradun, Confluence town is in Tehri,
Gate town is in Rishikesh while Ridge town is in Mussoorie.
533. (c) Gilgit → Kargil →Srinagar →Banihal
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
534. (c) Murshidabad is in West Bengal, Gorakhpur is in Uttar
Pradesh, Bhopal is in Madhya Pradesh while Bhavnagar is
in Gujarat.
535. (a) Indian Standard Time is Calculated on the basis of 82.30°
E Longitude, in shankargarh Fort, Mirzapur(25.15° N 82.58° E)
(in Mirzapur district in the state of Uttar Pradesh) which is nearly
on the corresponding longitude reference line. Since the eastwest extent of India is vast so a time difference of two hours is
found in local time. Time period of Lucknow and Chennai are
almost same because they lie in Same longitude.
536. (a) On the basis of Geographical area -
The largest state is Andhra Pradesh - (160,205km2
)
The Smallest state is Uttarakhand - (53,483 km2
)
Chhatisgarh - (135,191 km2
)
Telangana - (114,840 km2
)
Tamil Nadu - (130,058 km2
)
537. (a) Baghelkhand - Madhya Pradesh
Kuttand - Kerala
Saurashtra - Gujarat
Rarh - West Bengal
538. (a) The correct sequence is Alwar(Rajasthan)-
Gorakhpur(Uttar Pradesh)- Ranchi(Jharkhand)-
Bhagalpur(Bihar).
539. (d) The Sons flows north-northwest through Madhya Pradesh.
540. (c) Nasik is located on the banks of the Godavari.
541. (c) The correct sequence is, Murshidabad- GorakhpurBhopal- Bhavnagar
542. (a) Manipur does not have boundary with Bangladesh.
543. (b) The Latitude & Longitude for New Delhi are 28.38 Degree
N and 77.12 degree.
544. (b) Tawang is situated in the northwestern part of Arunachal
Pradesh at an elevation of approximately 10,000 ft. The
area is claimed by both the People’s Republic of China and
the Republic of India as a part of South Tibet.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
545. (b) Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and Gujarat have
common borders with Pakistan.
546. (d) Any city north of the Tropic of Cancer will never have the
sun directly overhead. Thus, Sri nagar never gets vertical
rays of the sun all through the year. Its latitude is
approximately 34 degree north.
547. (b) Srinagar and Darjeeling will have mid-day sun exactly
overhead only once a year.
548. (c) The Narmada River travels a distance of 1,312 km before it
falls into Gulf of Cambay in the Arabian Sea near Bharuch
in Gujarat. The first 1,079 km of its run is in Madhya
Pradesh. In the next length of 35 km, the river forms the
boundary between the States of Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra. Again, in the next length of 39 km, it forms the
boundarybetween Maharashtra and Gujarat.
549. (d)
550. (b) Nagaland does not form its boundary with Bangladesh.
551. (c) Telangana State is Surrounded by Maharashtra, Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh and Chattisgarh.
552. (c) All the north-east states lie along the international borders
surrounded by five neighbouring countries viz., China,
Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh. Arunachal
Pradesh shares borders with Nepal, China and Myanmar.
553. (d) Sheohar district in Bihar is poorest according to per capita
income criteria.
554. (a) Khatling glacier is a lateral glaciar, from the Centre of which
bubbles out the River Bhilangana. It is Situated at Tehri –
Garhwal district.
555. (d) Uttar Pradesh having an area of 243290 km2 comes at
fourth position after Rajasthan (342239 km2), Madhya
Pradesh (308350 km2), and Maharashtra (307713 km2)