1. The maximum biodiversity is found in
(a) tropical rain forests
(b) temperate forests
(c) coniferous forests
(d) arctic forests
2. Which one of the following trees is considered to be an
environmental hazard ?
(a) Babool
(b) Amaltas
(c) Neem
(d) Eucalyptus
3. Which one of the following is the most important factor
responsible for decline of biodiversity?
(a) Genetic assimilation
(b) Controlling predators
(c) Destruction of habitat
(d) Controlling pests
4. Which one of the following is important strategy for the
conservation of biodiversity ?
(a) Biosphere Reserves
(b) Botanical Gardens
(c) National Parks
(d) Wild Life Sanctuaries
5. Endangered species are listed in
(a) Dead Stock Book
(b) Red Data Book
(c) Live Stock Book
(d) None of these
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
6. Which of the following environmentalists first gave the concept
of Biodiversity ‘Hotspots’ ?
(a) Julia Hill
(b) John Muir
(c) Norman Myers
(d) Gaylord Nelson
7. The loss of biodiversity is due to
(a) the destruction of natural habitats of organism
(b) environmental pollution
(c) destruction of forests
(d) all the above
8. The greatest diversity of animal and plant species occurs in
(a) tropical moist forests
(b) temperate deciduous forests
(c) deserts and Savanna
(d) equatorial forests
9. Which one among the following is not an endangered bird of
India?
(a) White-bellied Heron
(b) Great Indian Bustard
(c) Forest Owlet
(d) Mallard
10. Under optional conditions, the fruit fly (Drosophila) is capable of
producing a new generation every two weeks.
This ability is referred to as the ............ of the species.
(a) carrying capacity
(b) niche
(c) biotic potential
(d) optimal yield
11. ‘Nitrosomonas’ bacteria in the root modules of leguminous
plants converts nitrogen gas from air into inorganic nitrogen
compounds which enrich the soil and can be readily used by
plants. Multiple cropping with legumes can thus significantly
reduce the need for
(a) pesticides
(b) fertilizers
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(c) irrigation
(d) All of these
12. In dry regions, the leaf size of a tree becomes smaller. It is so to
(a) reduce metabolism
(b) reduce transpiration
(c) maintain natural growth
(d) protect plant from animals
13. REDD Plus Programme is concerned with which of the following
?
(a) Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)
(b) Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD)
(c) Millennium Development Goals (MDG)
(d) Earth Summit
14. Which one of the following plants is used for green manuring in
India ?
(a) Wheat
(b) Sunnhemp
(c) Cotton
(d) Rice
15. Which among the following are the major reasons behind
preferring eucalyptus tree in the planned forestation process?
1. Plantation grows very fast.
2. Plantation makes the soil more fertile.
3. Wood from eucalyptus tree is easily converted into the pulp
for paper industry.
Select the correct answer using the codes given below.
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1 and 3
(c) 2 and 3
(d) All of these
16. Polar bears are carnivores and prey on many arctic birds and
fishes. However, under natural conditions, no one found polar
bears predating any penguin. This is because
(a) penguins have chemical substance in their muscles which is
toxic to polar bears
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(b) penguins are gregarious and always move in groups. Therefore,
a polar bear cannot approach them
(c) polar bears and penguins never coexist under natural conditions.
The former lives in the North Pole while the latter lives in the
South Pole
(d) polar bears and penguins display symbiotic relationships and
they help each other for their existence in the ice-cold
ecosystem
17. Given below are two statements:
Assertion (A): Natural vegetation is the true index of climate.
Reason (R): Water loving plants are found in moist climate
In the context of the above statements, which one of the following is
correct?
(a) Both A and R are true and R is the correct explanation of A.
(b) Both A and R are true but R is not the correct explanation of A.
(c) A is true but R is false.
(d) A is false but R is true.
18. How does National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) help in
protecting the Indian agriculture?
1. NBA checks the biopiracy and protects the indigenous and
traditional genetic resources.
2. National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) directly monitors and
supervises the scientific research on genetic modification of
crop plants.
3. Application for Intellectual Property Rights related to
genetic/biological resources can not be made without the
approval of NBA.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 1 and 2 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1, 2 and 3
19. Consider the following protected areas:
1. Bandipur
2. Bhitarkanika
3. Manas
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
4. Sunderbans
Which of the above are declared Tiger Reserves?
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 1, 3 and 4 only
(c) 2, 3 and 4 only
(d) 1, 2, 3 and 4
20. Which of the following can be threats to the biodiversity of a
geographical area?
1. Global warming
2. Fragmentation of habitat
3. Invasion of alien species
4. Promotion of vegetarianism
Select the correct answer using the codes given below:
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1, 2 and 3 only
(d) 1, 2, 3 and 4 only
21. Consider the following statements:
1. Biodiversity is normally greater in the lower latitudes as
compared to the higher latitudes.
2. Along the mountain gradients, biodiversity is normally greater in
the lower altitudes as compared to the higher altitudes.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
22. The Red Data Books published by the International Union for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) contains
lists of
1. Endemic plant and animal species present in the bio-diversity
hotspots.
2. Threatened plant and animal species.
3. Protected sites for conservation of nature and natural resources
in various countries.
Select the correct answer using the codes given below:
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(a) 1 and 3
(b) 2 only
(c) 3 only
(d) 2 and 3
23. Biodiversity forms the basis for human existence in the following
ways:
1. Soil formation
2. Prevention of soil erosion
3. Recycling of waste
4. Pollination of crops
Select the correct answer using the codes given below:
(a) 1, 2 and 3 only
(b) 2, 3 and 4 only
(c) 1 and 4 only
(d) 1, 2, 3 and 4
24. Which of the following regions of India have been designated as
biodiversity hotspots?
Select the correct answer from the codes given below:
1. Eastern Himalaya
2. Eastern Ghat
3. Western Ghat
4. Western Himalaya
Codes:
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 1 and 3 only
(c) 2 and 4 only
(d) 3 and 4 only
25. Which of the following are the incorrect statements about
‘Keystone species’.
1. Keystone species are the small-sized plants and organisms
which have large effect on the environment.
2. Keystone species play critical role in maintaining the structure of
an ecological community.
3. Keystone species do not generally affect other organisms.
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 2 and 3
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(c) 1 and 3
(d) All are correct
26. Consider the following statements:
Assertion (A): Many mangrove plants possess high levels of organic
solutes.
Reason (R): This is an adaptation to survive and grow in salty
waters. Select the correct answer from the codes given below:
Codes:
(a) Both A and R are true R is correct explanation of A.
(b) Both A and R are true but R is not the correct explanation of A.
(c) A is true but R is false.
(d) A is false but R is true.
27. Consider the following statements and choose the correct ones:
1. A new online Atlas of freshwater biodiversity has been launched
on 29 January, 2014 which is an output of Biofresh.
2. This will help in managing and protecting the freshwater in
future.
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
28. Consider the following statements and choose the correct ones.
1. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) is the
world’s oldest and largest global environmental
organization.
2. IUCN was founded in 1948, its Green data book does
conservation planning, monitoring to protect endangered
species.
3. On 30 January, 2014, IUCN announced that it is celebrating 50
years of the IUCN Red List of threatened species.
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 1 and 3 only
(c) 2 and 3 only
(d) All are correct
29. Consider the following statements
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
1. The Pacific salmon fish uses the Earth’s magnetic field to find
their way
2. Machli, Queen Mother of tiger dynasty was found in the
Ranthambhore National Park, India.
Which of the above statements is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) both 1 and 2
(d) None of these
30. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red
list version 2013 of the birds indicates 15 species of birds from
India as critically endangered. The reason for the decline in the
number of these birds are:
1. Loss, modification, fragmentation and degradation of habitat
2. Environmental contaminants
3. Poaching
4. Use changes mainly conversion of large areas to intensive crop
cultivation
Select the answer from the codes given below-
(a) 1, 2, and 3
(b) 2, 3, and 4
(c) 1, 3, and 4
(d) All of the above
31. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) on
30 January 2014 completed its 50 years of the IUCN Red List of
Threatened Species in guiding conservation action and policy
decisions. The IUCN:
1. acts as a powerful tool to inform and catalyse action for
biodiversity conservation and policy change for things that
are critical to protect the natural resources that are needed
by us to survive.
2. provides the information on population size as well as trends
depending upon the range and habitat needs of species.
Which of the above statements is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
(c) both 1 and 2
(d) None of these
32. The steps taken by the Government of India for conversion of
endangered species are
1. The Central Government has enacted the Wild Life (Protection)
Act, 1972 for protection of wildlife including birds.
2. Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules 2010 have
been framed for protection of wetlands, in the States, which
are habitats of birds.
3. Wildlife Crime Control Bureau has been established for control of
illegal trade in wildlife, including endangered species of
birds and their parts and products.
4. The Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National Plan for
Conservation of Aquatic Eco-System also provides
assistance to the States for management of wetlands
including Ramsar sites in the country.
Select the answer from the codes given below-
(a) 1, 2, and 3
(b) 2, 3, and 4
(c) 1, 3, and 4
(d) All of the above
33. The three species of vultures that are critically endangered that
have declined by more than 97 percent since 1990s are:
1. Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus)
2. Oriental white-backed (Gyps bengalensis)
3. Long-billed (Gyps indicus)
4. Slender-billed vulture (Gyps tenuirostris)
Select the answer from the codes given below-
(a) 1, 2 and 3
(b) 2, 3 and 4
(c) 1, 3 and 4
(d) None of the above
34. Consider the following statements
1. Tree Foundation, an NGO engaged in conservation of the sea
turtle found more than 1000 dead Olive Ridley Turtles in the
shores of Nagapattinam.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
2. The Olive Ridley turtles find the coastline of Nagapattinam as a
favourable nesting habitat and that’s why they reach to the
shore from December to March every year.
3. The Olive Ridley looks very similar to the Kemp’s Riddle, but has
a deeper body and slightly up-turned edges to its carapace
(shell).
4. Olive Ridley weighs around 45 kilograms and are 70cm in size
and this makes them the smallest of the sea turtles along
with Kemp riddles.
Which of the following statements are correct?
(a) 1, 2 and 3
(b) 2, 3 and 4
(c) 1, 3 and 4
(d) All of the above
35. Which of the following are the new species of freshwater catfish
discovered in Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts of Kerala in
November 2013?
1. Horabagrus melanosoma
2. Mystus heoki
3. Mystus indicus
4. Mystus miami
Select the answers from the codes given below:
(a) 1 only
(b) 1 and 2 only
(c) 1, 2 and 3 only
(d) All of the above
36. Which of the following has been cited as a cause for the deaths
of the Penguin chicks from the world’s largest colony of
Magellanic Penguins
(a) Lack of food
(b) Warm Ocean Currents
(c) Climate Change
(d) All of the above
37. Dung beetles live in regions where cattle graze, quickly burying
and recycling cattle droppings. Because of the dung beetles
activities, breeding habitats for disease-carrying flies are
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
reduced and the plants upon which cattle feed are nourished.
The relationship between the dung beetles and the diseasecarrying flies is a type of :
(a) mutualism
(b) commensalism
(c) intraspecific competition
(d) interspecific competition
38. Flea beetles alone are unlikely to eliminate all of the leafy
spurge in a region. Instead, the number of leafy spurge plants
and the number of flea beetles in a particular community may
stabilize. At this point, the leafy spurge and flea beetle
populations:
(a) have exhibited exponential growth followed by a crash
(b) have experienced constant growth
(c) are still experiencing exponential growth
(d) are experiencing environmental resistance
39. The concept of biodiversity hotspots is given by :
(a) F.P. Odum
(b) Norman Myers
(c) James Lovelock
(d) Rachel Carson
40. Biodiversity Hotspot are characterized on the basis of:
(a) Endemic flowering plants and threat perception
(b) Endemic flowering plants
(c) Species of flowering plants
(d) None of above
41. In India, if a species of tortoise is declared protected under
Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, what does it
imply ?
(a) It enjoys the same level of protection as the tiger.
(b) It no longer exists in the wild, a few individuals are under captive
protection; and now it is impossible to prevent its extinction.
(c) It is endemic to a particular region of India.
(d) Both (b) and (c) stated above are correct in this context.
42. According to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, which of the
following animals cannot be hunted by any person except under
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
some provisions provided by law?
1. Gharial
2. Indian wild ass
3. Wild buffalo
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1, 2 and 3
43. If you want to see gharials in their natural habitat, which one of
the following is the best place to visit?
(a) Bhitarkanika Mangroves
(b) Chambal River
(c) Pulicat Lake
(d) DeeporBeel
44. Due to some reasons, if there is a huge fall in the population of
species of butterflies, what could be its likely
consequence/consequences?
1. Pollination of some plants could be adversely affected.
2. There could be a drastic increase in the fungal infections of
some cultivated plants.
3. It could lead to a fall in the population of some species of wasps,
spiders and birds.
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 3 only (d) 1, 2 and 3