1. (c) Joseph Fourier was a French mathematician and physicist.
He is credited with the discovery of Greenhouse Effect. In
1827, he suggested that the Earth’s atmosphere might act
as an insulator and retain the heat. Joseph Fourier is best
remembered for his work on the flow of heat in the form of
Fourier’s law.
2. (d) Water vapour is the most potent of the greenhouse gases in
Earth’s atmosphere. The amount of water vapour in the
atmosphere is dependent on air temperature. The warmer
the surface, the greater the rate of evaporation water from
the surface. As a result, increased evaporation leads to a
greater concentration of water vapor in the lower
atmosphere capable of absorbing infrared radiation and
increasing the global temperature.
3. (a) The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) entered into force on March 21, 1994.
The Convention sets an ultimate objective of stabilizing
atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases at safe
levels.
4. (d) Nitrogen is not a Greenhouse gas as it is not responsible
for increasing the temperature of Earth.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
5. (a) Carbon dioxide is one of the major reasons for production
of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
6. (d) Greenhouse gases, Ozone layer depletion and pollution in
the environment all are responsible for climate change.
7. (d) The Ozone layer restricts the Ultraviolet radiation (UV
rays).Overexposure to UV rays can cause sunburn and skin
cancer.
8. (b) Photochemical process is related to ozone formation as it is
through this process radicals react with volatile organic
compounds (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) to form
ozone.
9. (a) The concept of Carbon Credit was originated from Kyoto
Protocol. Carbon credit allows a country or organization to
produce a certain amount of carbon emissions and which
can be traded if the full allowance is not used. Kyoto
Protocol was adopted in Kyoto, Japan, on 11 December
1997 and entered into force on 16 February 2005.
10. (c) The Earth Summit or UN Conference on Environment and
Development (UNCED) was held in Rio de Janeiro during 3-
14 June 1992.
11. (a) The Global 500 Award is given for achievement in the field
of environmental protection. The Award was launched in
1987 by the United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP) to recognize and honor environmental and
humanitarian achievement.
12. (b) Global warming is caused due to the emission of CO2 and
other greenhouse gases.
13. (d) Unplanned urbanization and industrialization are
detrimental to sustainable development, environment &
ecology and preservation of biodiversity.
14. (a) Agenda 21 is a non-binding, action plan of the United
Nations with regard to sustainable development. It is a
product of the first Earth Summit held (1992) in Rio de
Janeiro.
15. (b) Carbon dioxide is increased in the environment as a result
of burning of fossil fuels.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
16. (d) The Environmental Kuznets curve shows the relationship
between economic progress and environmental degradation
through time as an economy progresses. It describes that
as countries develop initially, pollution increases. But later,
as the economy achieves further development, pollution
decreases. It is represented as inverted U shaped curve.
17. (c) The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone
Layer formalized international cooperation on the issue
which resulted in the signing of the Montreal Protocol on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer in 1987. The
Multilateral Fund, under an international treaty, was created
under the Protocol in 1990 to provide financial assistance to
developing countries to help them achieve their phase out
obligations.
18. (d) The “hockey stick” graph shows the average global
temperature over the past several 1,000 years.
19. (b) Anaerobic decomposition of organic material in flooded rice
fields produces large quantities of methane which is one of
the main greenhouse gases.
20. (d) The most abundant greenhouse gases in Earth’s
atmosphere are:
Water vapor (H2O), Carbon dioxide (CO2
), Methane (CH4
),
Nitrous oxide (N2O), Ozone (O3
) and CFCs.
21. (c) Agenda 21 is a non-binding, voluntarily implemented action
plan of the United Nations with regard to sustainable
development. It is a product of the UN Conference on
Environment and Development (UNCED) held in Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil, in 1992. The “21” in Agenda 21 refers to the
21st Century.
22. (d) Environmental degradation means lowering of
environmental qualities due to adverse changes by human
activities and ecological imbalance.
23. (c) Global warming is the increase in the global temperature. It
has put many negative impacts on glaciers causing them to
start melting and thus easing, rise of sea level.
Unpredictable weather conditions prevailing in some
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
geographical areas are some of the other effects of global
warming.
24. (b) Forests are renewable natural resources and enhance the
quality of environment by providing oxygen needed to
sustain life on the earth. Although both assertion and
reason are correct statements but reason is not the correct
explanation of the assertion.
25. (d) The Milankovitch theory is an explanation of long term
climate change. The book ‘On the Origin of Species’ was
written by Charles Darwin, published on 24 November
1859.
26. (b) Both the assertion and reason are correct statements but
the later is not the correct explanation of the former. The
basic planning for environment includes ‘conservation of
organisms and resources’ as the most valuable component.
Development can be complementary to conservation, only
when it is sustainable.
27. (a) Both A and R are correct and R is the correct explanation
of A. Organic farming depends on on-farm resources, using
alternative sources like no usage of chemical pesticides and
fertilizers, on-farm practices which do not depend on fossil
fuels consumption.
28. (d) The prestigious Gold Standard Foundation (GSF)
certification has been awarded to the Delhi Metro Rail
Corporation (DMRC), for efficient usage of energy, on 2
February, 2014. DMRC has become the first ever Railway
system in the world with GSF certification standard. In 2008,
DMRC had also become the first Railway project in the
world to be registered by the UN under the Clean
Development Mechanism (CDM).
29. (b) The Researchers found a small correlation between cosmic
rays and global temperatures occurring every 22 years;
however, the changing cosmic ray rate lagged behind the
change in temperatures by between one and two years,
suggesting that the cause might not be down to cosmic rays
alone and cloud formation but might be due to the direct
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
effects of the sun. By comparing the small oscillations in the
cosmic ray rate, which were taken from data from two
neutron monitors, and temperature with the overall trends in
both since 1955, the research team found that less than 14
per cent of the global warming seen during this period could
be attributable to solar activity.
30. (b) GSF standard certification is a globally accepted
certification standard for carbon mitigation projects. The
Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) registered for the
certification standard for its energy efficiency measures
undertaken in 51 stations in Phase II of the DMRC Project.
The energy efficiency measures were primarily undertaken
in the heating, venting and air conditioning (HVAC) systems,
lighting system and other energy efficient measures of
station buildings; the measures adopted in the HVAC
system resulted in reduction in electrical energy
consumption.
31. (b) First Climate Change theatre was opened at Pushpa Gujral
Science City in Kapurthala, Punjab on 16 January 2014.
The theatre will educate people on climate change. This is
the second theatre in the world to be opened after Canada.
The theatre is 18 metre in diameter and it is set up in a
dome-shaped building with a seating capacity of 125
persons. The 25-minute film shows what worst can happen
if humans do not take action on current or impending
problems which could threaten civilization. The film starts by
giving a glimpse of future - floods, droughts, earthquakes
and other natural disasters.
32. (d) The estimation of retreat of Gangotri glacier has been
measured using rapid static and kinematic GPS survey. The
Gangotri is one of the largest Himalayan glaciers in
Uttarkashi district, Uttarakand. The glaciers originate at
about 7100 meter above the sea level and are 30.2 km long
with a width that varies between 0.5 and 2.5 km. The River
Bhagirathi, one of the main tributaries of the Ganga,
originates from Gangotri glacier.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
32. (b) In environmental law, the polluter pays principle is enacted
to make the party responsible for producing pollution, to be
held responsible for paying the damage done to the natural
environment. The precautionary principle is a strategy to
cope up with the possible risks in cases where scientic
understanding is incomplete as yet, in cases such as GMD,
nanotechnology etc. There are 5 stages of skeptic
responses of climate change. These are
(i) Denial of the existence of the problem
(ii) Denial that humans are responsible for it
(iii) Denying that it is infact a problem
(iv) Denying the possibility that it can be solved
(v) Claiming that it is already too late to solve the problem.
34. (c) The chipko movement began in the year of 1973 in the
Tehri Garhwal region. It was a form of organised resistance
against destruction of forests. The local village women
prevented the felling of trees by hugging them highly. The
word ‘chipko’ means to ‘stick around’ or to ‘hug’.
35. (b) Ozone present in the stratosphere, acts as a protection
from U.V. light. Without this protective shield, all life would
be more susceptible to cancer, impaired immunity and other
health issues. Whereas the ozone present in the
troposphere, which is close to earth surface, can damage
our lungs. Hence it is not good for breathing.
36. (b) In an pollution free stratosphere, the production and
destruction of ozone are in balance and hence the
concentration of O3
remains constant with time. When
CFC’s are released into the lower troposphere, they diffuse
up into the stratosphere since their lifetime is 50-100 years
when CFCs reach the middle stratosphere, UV radiation
liberates the chlorine atom.
CFC + UV → Cl
Cl is then able to destroy as many as 100,000 O3 molecules.
37. (d) It has been proved that CFCs are a major cause of
depletion of the earth’s stratospheric ozone layer and
contribute to the green house effect.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Large quantities of CFCs are used as refrigerants in a number of
refrigerating and air conditioning systems. Though the
refrigerant moves in a closed cycle, there are lots of
leakages that escape to the atmosphere and cause
destruction of the ozone layer. CFCs have exceptionally
long atmospheric life, which can extend upto 100 years.
38. (a) IPCC is the leading international body for the assessment
of climate change. It was established by the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World
Meteorological Organisation (WMO) in 1988 to provide the
world with a clear scientific view on the current state of
knowledge in climate change and its potential
environmental and socio-economic impacts.
39. (a) Carbon credit shows that a country or any entity emits the
carbon below the limit prescribed by the government, hence
the country or entity can sell it in exchange where carbon
credits are traded.
40. (a) Coral Bleaching is being caused by the climate change.
Increase in surface temperature of ocean due to climate
change is increasing the decline of zooxanthellae.
Zooxanthellae is responsible for the process of
photosynthesis.
41. (b) CO2
is the largest contributor towards global warming,
followed by methane, CFCs and N2O.
42. (d) Carbon sequestration may be carried out by pumping
carbon into carbon sinks of two types:
A. Natural sinks- ocean, forest, soil etc.
B. Artificial sink- depleted oil reserve, unminable mines. So
statement 1 and 2 are correct.
And deep Saline Formations infact have highest capacity for this.
So accordingly, answer is “D”.
43. (b) US National Research Council report on Algal Biofuel
(2012) observed that
1. algae and cyanobacteria biomass production in the U.S. desert
Southwest could be perceived as a good use of low-value
land by some, but as an intrusion into pristine land by
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
others. Similarly, the use of genetically modified organisms
in production systems could affect social acceptability. So
this is social concern and it also proves statement #1
wrong.
2. Open Algal ponds will attract insect larvae invasion and affect
predator-prey balance. This is ecological concern. Hence
Statement 3 is right.
3. And the report discussed challenges production and technology.
Hence answer 2 and 3.
44. (a) As per their organizations’ “About us” page:
EuropeAid (DG for International Cooperation and Development)
drives and oversees the overall implementation of the
GCCA. So third statement is wrong. By elimination we are
left with “A”.
45. (b) As per the timeline given on their official “About us” page:
CCAC was formed in 2012 by UNEP and Ghana,
Bangladesh etc. countries. So first statement is
wrong.Second statement is right-they focus on Short Lived
Climate Pollutants such as methane, black carbon and
hydrofluorocarbons.
46. (a) Zinc is not considered as water pollutant.
47. (c) Arsenic is one of the non-biotic pollutants of underground
water. Long-term exposure to arsenic from drinking-water
and food can cause cancer and skin lesions. In utero and
early childhood exposure has been linked to negative
impacts on cognitive development.
48. (d) Acid rain is caused mainly due to the emission of sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxides which combine with water to
produce sulfuric acid and nitric acid respectively.
49. (a) The highest chemical pollution is caused due to industrial
effluents from Leather Industry. It contains a complex
mixture of both organic and inorganic pollutants like
chlorinated phenols, chromium, Azodyes, Lead, Mercury,
Arsenic, Polychlorinated Biphenyls, Formaldehyde resins
etc.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
50. (a) Ultra-low-sulfur diesel is diesel fuel with sulfur content not
more than 0.005%. Since 2006, all of the petroleum-based
diesel fuel available in Europe and North America are using
fuel with ultra low sulfur content.
51. (b) Nitrification is not related with water pollution. Nitrification is
a microbial process by which reduced nitrogen compounds
like ammonia are sequentially oxidized to nitrite and nitrate.
52. (a) Supersonic jets flying in the stratospheric region produces
water vapour, hydroxyl radical and oxides of nitrogen that
are responsible for depletion of ozone layer and formation
of greenhouse gases.
53. (b) Bioremediation is the process of using microorganisms to
remove the environmental pollutants such as cleaning up of
contaminated soil, oil spills etc.
54. (d) Coal combustion at thermal power plants emits Carbon
Dioxide, Carbon Monoxide, Sulphur Dioxide, Nitrogen
Dioxide and particulate matters.
55. (a) Tetraethyl lead is used as an antiknock agent in fuels.
56. (b) Vienna Convention is related with the Protection of the
Ozone Layer, Stockholm Convention with Persistent
Organic Pollutants, while The Rotterdam Convention is a
multilateral treaty to promote shared responsibilities in
relation to importation of hazardous chemicals and the
Basel Convention is related with Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their disposal
57. (b) Buddha Nullah carries the untreated effluents and finally
meets the Sutlej River in Punjab.
58. (c) Bioremediation is the process of using microorganisms to
remove the environmental pollutants such as oil spills,
pesticides etc. The removal of organic wastes by microbes
is carried out by their enzymes.
59. (b) United States and Canada are the countries which are
mostly affected by acid rain because of high number of
factories, power plants and large number of automotive
plants. Europe, Poland, Germany, Czech Republic,
Sweden, Norway and Finland are affected because of
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
British and European factories. In Asia, India and China are
mostly affected mainly because of the large number of
factories.
60. (b) Radioactive contamination or pollution causes severe lifethreatening consequences in organisms. Because of the
radioactive decay of the contaminants, which emit harmful
ionising radiation such as alpha or beta particles, gamma
rays or neutrons, genetic mutations occur which are
hereditary. Carcinogenic contaminants cause cancer.
61. (a) Both A and R are true and R is the correct explanation of A.
The weedicides and herbicides are metabolic inhibitors,
inhibiting the metabolic pathways as well as photosynthesis.
Some weedicides also cause phloem cells’ proliferation so
as to block the transport of plants’ food materials.
62. (d) Almost all of the mercury in the Arctic atmosphere is
transported there in gaseous form from sources in areas
farther south, from sources such as wildfires, coal burning
and gold mining. Scientists have long known that mercury in
the air near ground level undergoes complex chemical
reactions that deposit the element on the surface. Once the
mercury is completely removed from the air, these reactions
stop. However, this newly discovered mixing ice forces
down additional mercury to restart and sustains the
reactions.
63. (d) The schedule is meant to reduce the growth of the US
government’s liabilities under the 1982 Nuclear Waste
Policy Act, under which it was to begin taking spent reactor
fuel from power companies in 1998. About 68,000 tonnes of
used reactor fuel remains at 72 different power plant sites
across the country, with the Department of Energy (DoE)
reimbursing power companies the cost. The current
production rate of spent fuel is 2,000 tonnes a year. The two
interim facilities will accept used reactor fuel at a rate faster
than this in order to gradually reduce the inventory at power
companies.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
64. (d) Materials from land’s surface can travel through the soil
ultimately reaching the groundwater. For example pesticide
and fertilizers can enter into the ground water supplies.
Untreated waste from septic tanks and toxic chemicals from
underground storage tanks and leaky landfills can also
contaminate groundwater.
65. (a) Recycling is the best way to get rid of non-biodegradable
waste. Burying will not have any effect on the nonbiodegradable wastes. Burning causes pollution.
66. (c) Absorption technique is used for controlling gaseous
pollutant. These pollutants are brought into contact with a
liquid such as water. The liquid absorbs the gas.
Incineration is a process of waste treatment that employs
combustion of the organic substances comprised in the
waste materials. An arrestor is meant for protection of
insulators and conducters of a system from the effects of
lightning.
67. (a) Oxygen is required for decomposition of microorganism
under the water. Increase in waste and pollution enhances
the decomposition activities and thereby reduces the
availability of oxygen for other organic activities under the
water body. Hence a higher demand of oxygen (BOD)
indicates higher level of microbial pollution.
68. (c) NCERT Class 11 Chemistry: Ch. 14-Environmental
Chemistry, page 407
The amount of oxygen required by bacteria to break down the
organic matter present in a certain volume of a sample of
water, is called Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD). The
amount of BOD in the water is a measure of the amount of
organic material in the water, in terms of how much oxygen
will be required to break it down biologically. Clean water
would have BOD value of less than 5 ppm whereas highly
polluted water could have a BOD value of 17 ppm or more.
69. (c) Biosparging is an in-Situ Bioremediation techniques in
which we inject the air under pressure below the water table
to enhance the rate of biological degradation of
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
contaminants by naturally occurring bacteria. Hence
statement 1 is right. In Google Scholar search engine is
filled with academic papers on genetic engineering
approaches to bioremediation. Hence 3 is also right. But not
all compounds are susceptible to rapid and complete
biodegradation, and bioremediation often takes longer time
than other treatment processes. So, second statement
unlikely to be correct. Hence, answer “C” 1 and 3 only