YOUR PERSONALITY TEST
Try to be as truthful as you can.
How often :
1. Are you sensitive to the moods of people you communicate
with?
2. Do you lose your temper when people do not listen to you
attentively?
3. Do you let your temper implode instead of exploding?
4. Do you ever sympathize or empathasize with the person
who is telling you his problems ?
5. Can you express yourself clearly when you are facing an
angry superior?
6. Do you observe the body language of the person you are
speaking to?
7. How often do you interrupt a person who is speaking to
you?
8. If a conversation does not interest you, do you get inattentive
and irritable?
9. If someone gets dominating and bossy, do you start avoiding
him ?
10. Are you an open book to all your acquaintances? Do you
wear your heart on your sleeve?
11. If somebody hurts your feelings, are you strong enough to
stand up for yourself?
12. Do you take criticism positively?
13. Do you try to overcome your faults by eliminating them ?
14. Do you enjoy a good equation with your boss at all the
time?
15. Do you bring your workplace problems to your home?
16. When people working for you do not understand your point
of your view, do you try to adjust yourself to their view
point?
17. If a senior colleague has contradictory viewpoints do you
deal with the situation diplomatically and tactfully ?
18. Are you flexible enough to control your moods based on
the demands of the situation?
19. Do you have different ways of communicating with
individuals coming from different backgrounds ?
20. Are you able to face pressures of meeting deadlines without
tying your self up in knots?
21. Can you assess the mood of others by looking at them as
you converse with them ?
22. Do you dominate conversations ?
23. Are you are able to resolve problems without showing
emotions?
24. Do you find it easy to understand alternative point of
views ?
25. While communicating with people, do you pay attention to
their body language (ex. facial expression, hand movement,
etc.) ?
26. Do you find yourself struggling to find the right words that
expresses what you want to say ?
27. When you are angry, do you admit your anger ?
28. Can you sense when others are not able to understand what
you are saying?
29. Are you completely at ease when a conversation shifts to
topic of emotions?
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.5
30. Can you express your ideas clearly?
31. When you talk to others, do you put yourself in the other
persons shoes?
32. Do you get caught up in what you have to say and become
unaware of reactions of your listeners ?
33. When you know what the other person is going to say, do
you complete the sentence for them?
34. Do you tend to misinterpret people's words?
35. Do you have difficulties in putting your thoughts into words?
36. Do emotionally charged situations make you uncomfortable?
37. People don't understand what you are conveying?
38. Do you fidget (e.g. play with hair, watch, pen) while listening
to others?
39. You find it hard to express your feelings to others?
40. People tend to misinterpret what you say?
41. You postpone and avoid discussing touchy topics?
42. You have to repeat yourself often as people don't
understand you the first time around?
43. If you don't understand someone's explanation the first time
do you feel hesitant while asking for a clarification?
44. Are you able to confront someone who has hurt your feelings?
45. Do you flare up when dealing with someone you find
intimidating?
46. You find it difficult to understand people who don't have the
same point of view as you do?
47. You change the way you talk depending on who you are
speaking to (e.g. speak slowly with someone whose first
language isn't English; speak more professionally when in a
meeting, etc.)?
48. You state your opinions, even if others disagree with you?
49. You believe that the best way to help others understand
you is to be completely open about your feelings?
50. If you have something relevant to add, you'll interrupt and
put forward your point of view.
51. When others become emotional, you are uncertain of your
reaction?
52. People complain that you don't pay attention when they
speak to you?
53. If you find a conversation boring, will you let your mind drift
away ?
54. You are uncomfortable if you are not leading the conversation
(e.g. choosing the topic, controlling the pace)?
55. You will stop a speaker mid-sentence if you disagree with a
statement he has made ?
56. You try to divert or end conversations that don't interest
you?
57. You are better off hiding your weaknesses so that no one
will use the weakness against you?
58. You find it difficult to express your opinions when others
don't share them?
