1. Which of the following is not a constitutional authority?
(a) State Election Commission
(b) State Finance Commission
(c) Zila Panchayat
(d) State Electoral Officer
2. Which one among the following commissions was set up in
pursuance of a definite provision under an Article of the
Constitution of India?
(a) University Grants Commission
(b) National Human Rights Commission
(c) Election Commission
(d) Central Vigilance Commission
3. What is the tenure of the Chief Election Commissioner of India?
(a) Five years
(b) During the ‘pleasure’ of the President
(c) Six years or till the age of 65 years whichever is earlier
(d) Five years or till the age of 65 years whichever is earlier
4. Consider the following statements regarding state election
commission
1. The state election commission is appointed by the Governors of
the respective states.
2. State election commission conducts election to the panchayats
only
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
5. Consider the following functions of State Election Commission
and select correct answer by using code given below
1. Prepares the electoral rolls for Panchayats and Municipalities
elections in the State.
2. Conducts elections for Panchayat and Municipalities of the State.
3. Conducts elections to various bodies except Panchayats and
Municipalities as directed by the Governor.
4. Prepares the electoral rolls and conducts elections as assigned
by Election Commission of India.
Codes:
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 3 and 4
(c) 1, 2 and 4
(d) Only 4
6. Who among the following determines the authority who shall
readjust the allocation of seats in the Lok Sabha to the states
and division of each State into territorial
constituencies? [NDA 2007-II]
(a) The President of India
(b) The Parliament of India
(c) The Chief Election Commissioner of India
(d) The Lok Sabha alone
7. The Chief Election Commissioner of India holds office for a
period of [NDA 2012-I]
(a) six years
(b) during the pleasure of the President
(c) for 6 years or till the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier
(d) for 5 years or till the age of 60 years, whichever is earlier
8. Delimitation of constituencies and determination of
constituencies reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes are done by [NDA 2012-II]
(a) Election Commission
(b) Delimitation Commission
(c) Planning Commission
(d) Election Commission with the assistance of Delimitation
Commission
9. Consider the following statements about State Election
Commission ? [NDA 2014-II]
1. The State Election Commissioner shall be appointed by the
Governor of the State.
2. The State Election Commission shall have the power of even
preparing the electoral rolls besides the power of
superintendence, direction and control of election to the
panchayats.
3. The State Election Commissioner cannot be removed in any
manner from his office until he demits himself or completes
his tenure.
Which of the above statements is/are correct?
(a) 1, 2 and 3
(b) 1 and 2 only
(c) 2 and 3 only
(d) 1 only
10. The power to decide the date of an election to a State
Legislative Assembly rests with the [NDA 2015-I]
(a) President of India
(b) Chief Minister and his/her Cabinet
(c) Election Commission of India
(d) Parliament
11. The Election Commissioner can be removed by the
[UP-PCS 2014]
(a) Chief Election Commissioner
(b) Prime Minister
(c) President on the recommendation of the chief Election
Commissioner
(d) Chief Justice of India
12. Who recognises he political parties in India?
(a) President of India
(b) Election Commission of India
(c) Ministry of Law and Justice
(d) Speaker of the Lok Sabha
13. Consider the following statements:
1. The Election Commission of India is a five-member body.
2. Union Ministry of Home Affairs decides the election schedule for
the conduct of both general elections and by-elections.
3. Election Commission resolves the disputes relating to
splits/mergers of recognized political parties.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 2 only
(c) 2 and 3 only
(d) 3 only
Comptroller & Auditor General(CAG)
14. The office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India was
created
(a) Through an act of the parliament
(b) By the Constitution
(c) Through a cabinet resolution
(d) None of the above
15. Consider the following statements :
1. The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has no control over
the issue of money from the Consolidated Fund of India.
2. The term of the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India has been fixed by an Act enacted by Parliament.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct ?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
16. Which of the following statements regarding the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India is / are true?
The Report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India:
1. Can be considered by the joint session of both Houses of
Parliament
2. Includes examination of income and expenditure of all public
sector undertaking
3. Is placed before the Lok Sabha with the comments of the
Estimates Committee
4. Constitutes the basis for scrutiny by the Public Accounts
Committee of the Parliament
Select the correct answer using the codes given below :
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1 and 3
(c) 2 and 4
(d) Only 4
17. Consider the following statements :
The Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has to:
1. Audit government expenditure
2. Make financial policy
3. Sanction grants to various departments
4. See that public expenditure are in conformity with the
government rules
Of these statements :
(a) 2, 3 and 4 are correct
(b) 1 and 3 are correct
(c) 2 and 3 are correct
(d) 1 and 4 are correct
18. Who among the following can only be removed from the office in
like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme
Court?
1. Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
2. Chief Election Commissioner
3. Chairman, Union Public Service Commission
4. Attorney General for India
Select the correct answer using the codes given below :
(a) 1, 2, 3 and 4
(b) 1, 2 and 4 only
(c) 1 and 2 only
(d) 2 and 3 only
19. The provision of the Act relating to the duties of the Comptroller
and Auditor-General of India are to audit and report on all the
expenditure form which of the following?
1. Consolidated Fund of India
2. Consolidated Fund of each State
3. Contingency Fund of India
4. Public Account of India
Select the correct answer using the codes given below :
(a) 1, 2, 3 and 4
(b) 1, 2 and 3 only
(b) 2, 3 and 4 only
(d) 1, 3 and 4 only
20. The Comptroller and Auditor General is appointed by the
President. He can be removed
(a) by the President
(b) on an address from both Houses of Parliament
(c) on the recommendation of the President by the Supreme Court
(d) by CJI
21. What is the Terms of the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India?
(a) 6 years
(b) upto 65 years of age
(c) 6 years or 65 years of age, whichever earlier
(d) upto 64 years of age
22. Who is called the Guardian of public purse?
(a) President
(b) Comptroller and Auditor-General
(c) Parliament
(d) Council of Ministers
23. Which of the following statement about Comptroller and Auditor
General of India (CAG) are correct?
(CDS 2016-I)
1. The CAG will hold office for a period of six years from the date he
assumes the office, He shall vacate office on attaining the
age of 65 years, if earlier than the expiry of the 6 years term
2. The powers of CAG are derived from the Constitution of India
3. The CAG is a multi-member body appointed by the President of
India in constitution with the prime Minister and the Council
of Ministers
4. The CAG may be removed by the President only on an address
from both Houses of Parliament, on the grounds of proved
misbehavior or incapacity
Select the correct answer using the code given below :
(a) 1, 2 and 4
(b) 1, 2 and 3
(c) 3 and 4
(d) 1 and 2 only
24. Consider the following statements with respect to the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
[NDA 2010-I]
1. He shall only be removed from office in like manner and on the
ground as a Judge of the Supreme Court.
2. He shall not be eligible for further office either under the
Government of India or under the Government of any State
after he has ceased to hold his office.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
25. Which of the following statements relating to Comptroller and
Auditor General in India is/are correct?
[NDA 2014-I]
1. He/She is not an officer of the Parliament but an officer under the
President.
2. He/She is an independent constitutional authority not directly
answerable to the House.
Select the correct answer using the codes given below
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
26. Which of the following statements relating to the comptroller and
Auditor General (CAG) of India is/are correct?
[NDA/NA 2016-I]
1. The CAG can attend the sittings of the Committee on Public
Accounts.
2. The CAG can attend the sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.
3. The jurisdiction of CAG is co-extensive with powers of the Union
Governement.
Select the correct answer using the code given below:
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 2 only
(d) 1, 2 and 3
27. The office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India was
created [UP-PCS 2012]
(a) through an Act of the Parliament
(b) by the Constitution
(c) through a Cabinet Resolution
(d) none of the above
28. The comptroller and Auditor General of India –
(a) Can be appointed as a member of UPSC after his retirement
(b) Can be appointed as the Chairman of State Public Service
commission
(c) Is not eligible for any further office either under the Central
government or the state government after his retirement
(d) Can be appointed to any office after his retirement
Union Public Service Commission & SPSC
29. Who is the highest civil servant of the Union Government?
(a) Attorney General
(b) Cabinet Secretary
(c) Home Secretary
(d) Principal Secretary of the P.M.
30. A member of UPSC may be removed on the ground of
misbehaviour by
(a) Both the Houses of Parliament by way of impeachment
(b) The President on the basis of enquiry by the Supreme Court.
(c) A resolution passed by the Rajya sabha by 2/3 majority of
members present and voting.
(d) The PM on the basis of the recommendation of the cabinet
31. Consider the following statements:
1. The first Public Service Commission in India was set up in the
year 1926, on the recommendation of the Lee Commission
on the Superior Civil Services in India.
2. The Government of India Act, 1935, provided for setting up of
public service commissions at both the federal and
provincial levels.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
32. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion(a) : The All-India Services violate the federal
principal of the Constitution as well as the
autonomy of States.
Reason (R) : The All-India Service officers are governed by
Central Government rules and the State
Government do not have full control over them.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true
33. Which of the following are the functions of the Union Public
Service Commission?
1. To conduct examinations for recruitment to the services of the
Union.
2. To advise on matters referred to it by the President or the
Governor.
3. To advise on all disciplinary matters affecting a government
servant.
4. To advise on the principles to be followed in respect of
promotions and transfers.
Select the correct answer using the codes given below :
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1, 2 and 3
(c) 1, 3 and 4
(d) 2, 3 and 4
34. Consider the following statements :
A member of the Union Public Service Commission is :
1. Debarred from re-appointment as a member
2. Ineligible for any other employment under the Central or State
Government
3. Disqualified from becoming a constitutional functionary like a
Governor
Of the above statements :
(a) 1, 2 and 3 are correct
(b) 2 and 3 are correct
(c) 1 and 3 are correct
(d) 1 and 2 are correct
35. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion (a) : The Union Public Service Commission must be
consulted as regards the reservation of posts for
Backward classes, Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes.
Reason (R) : The functions of the Union Public Service
Commission are only advisory and the
Government need not act upon the advice of the
Commission in any case.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true
36. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion (a) : No qualifications have been prescribed for the
membership of the Union Public Service
Commission.
Reason (R) : The Constitutions does not fix the number of
members of the Union Public Service
Commission.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true
37. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion (a) : UPSC is an independent organisation.
Reason (R) : UPSC is a constitutional body.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true
38. Consider the following statements :
A member of the Union Public Service Commission
1. Is appointed by the President of India.
2. Is ineligible for re-appointment to that office.
3. Holds office for a period of 6 years or till the age of 60 years,
whichever is earlier.
Of the above statements :
(a) 1, 2 and 3 are correct
(b) 1 and 2 are correct
(c) 2 and 3 are correct
(d) 1 and 3 are correct
39. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion (a) : being chairman of UPSC, one cannot become a
member of Central or State legislature.
Reason (R) : He is completely debarred from any future
employment under the Central or State
Government after retirement.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true
40. Assertion (a) The number of the Members of the Union Public
Service Commission is preserved in the Constitution of India.
Reason (R) The Union Public Service Commission was constituted
under the provisions in the Constitution of India.
Codes: [NDA 2007-II]
(a) Both A and R are true and R is the correct explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are true, but R is not the correct explanation of A
(c) A is true, but R is false
(d) A is false, but R is true
41. Consider the following statements [NDA 2008-II]
1. The Chairman and the Members of the UPSC are appointed by
the President.
2. The Chairman and the Members of the UPSC are eligible for
further employment under the Government.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
42. Which of the following is not a Constitutional body?
[UP-PCS 2013]
(a) Union Public Service Commission
(b) State Public Service Commission
(c) Finance Commission
(d) Planning Commission
43. Who was the first Chairman of the Uttarakhand Public Service
Commission? [UK-PSC/FR 2015]
(a) N. P. Navani
(b) S. K. Das
(c) Lt. Gen. G.S. Negi
(d) Lt. Gen. M. C. BhandarI
44. Who was the first President of India to make use of ‘Pocket
Veto’? [UGC-II 2016]
(a) Zakir Hussain
(b) Sanjeeva Reddy
(c) R. Venkatraman
(d) Gyani Zail Singh
Finance Commission
45. The Constitution of India authorizes the parliament to determine
the qualifications of members of the Finance Commission of
India and the manner in which they should be selected. In this
regard consider the following statements :
1. The commission consists of five members including its
chairperson.
2. Its chairperson necessarily should be an economist.
3. Its members are appointed from different fields such as finance
and accounts, administration, judicial etc.
Which of the statements given above are correct?
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1, 2 and 3
46. The primary function of the Finance Commission in India is to
(a) Distribute revenue between the centre and the state.
(b) Advise the president on financial matters
(c) Advise the president on financial matters.
(d) Allocate funds to various ministries of the Union and state
Governments.
47. Which one of the following authorities recommends the
principles governing the grants-in-aid of the revenues to the
states out of the consolidated fund of India?
(a) Finance Commission
(b) Inter-State-Council
(c) Union Ministry of Finance
(d) Public Accounts Committee
48. On which of the following matters, does the Finance
Commission make recommendations to the President of India?
1. The distribution between Union and States of net proceeds of
taxes and allocation between the States of their respective
share, of such proceeds.
2. The principles which should govern the grants-in-aid of the
revenues of the States out of the Consolidated Fund of
India.
Select the correct answer using the codes given below :
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
49. Consider the following statements with regard to the Finance
Commission:
1. The recommendations of the Finance Commission cover a
period of five years.
2. The Report of the Finance Commission is submitted to the Prime
Minister.
Which of the statements given above is / are correct ?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
50. Which one of the following expenditure is not charged on the
consolidated fund of India?
(a) Salary and allowances of the President of India
(b) Salary and allowances of the Vice President of India
(c) Salary and allowances of the Justice of the Supreme Court of
India
(d) Salary and allowances of the speaker of the Lok Sabha
51. Recommendations to the President of India on the specific
Union state fiscal relation are made by the
(a) Finance Minister
(b) Reserve Bank of India
(c) Planning Commission
(d) Finance Commission
52. Consider the following statement :
The expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of India
comprises:
1. Pension payable to Judges of High Court
2. Debt charges for which the Government of India is liable
3. Salary, allowances and pension payable to Comptroller and
Auditor General of India
Which of the statements given above are correct ?
(a) 1, 2 and 3
(b) 1 and 3 only
(c) 2 and 3 only
(d) 1 and 2 only
53. Consider the following statements and select the correct answer
from the codes given below :
Assertion (a) : The Finance Commission prescribes the framework
for the working of the Planning Commission.
Reason (R) : The jurisdiction and functions of the Finance
Commission are outlined in the Constitution of
India.
Codes :
(a) Both A and R are individually true and R is the correct
explanation of A
(b) Both A and R are individually true but R is not the correct
explanation of A
(c) A is true but R is false
(d) A is false but R is true

55. The principles concerning the provisions of the grant-in-aid to
the States out of the Consolidated Fund of India are
recommended by the :
(a) Planning Commission
(b) Administrative Reforms Commission
(c) Finance Commission
(d) Public Accounts Committee
56. Consider the following statements about the Finance
Commission:
1. The duty of the Finance Commission is to make
recommendations as to the distribution of revenue
resources between the Union and the States.
2. It is appointed every fifth year by the President of India
3. It raises revenue for central financial transfers to the States.
4. It borrows money form the market for central grants to the
States.
Which of the statements given above is / are correct ?
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1, 2 and 3
(c) 1 only
(d) 2 and 4
57. Financial distribution between the Union and the State takes
place on the basis of the recommendations of which one of the
following? [NDA 2008-I]
(a) The National Development Council
(b) The Inter-State Council
(c) The Planning Commission
(d) The Finance Commission
58. Which among the following functions as a coordinate between
the Planning Commission and State
Governments? [UP-PCS 2012]
(a) National Integration Council
(b) Finance Commission
(c) National Development Council
(d) None of the above
59. Consider the following qualifications with respect to the finance
commission : or one
1. A judge of High Court or one qualified to be the appointed as
one.
2. A persons who has a specialised knowledge of finance and
accounts of the government.
3. A person who has wide experience in financial matters and in
administration.
4. A person who has special knowledge of economics.
Who among the above can appointed as the member of the finance
commission?
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 1, 3 and 4 only
(c) 2, 3 and 4 only
(d) All of the above
60. Consider the following statements –
The state government shall appoint a finance commission to review
the financial positions of the Panchayats and to make
recommendations as to –
1. The distribution between the state and Panchayats of the net
proceeds of taxes tolls and fees leviable by the states.
2. The determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees which may
be assigned to the Panchayats
3. The principles that will determine grants-is-aid to the panchayats.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1,2 and 3
61. Consider the following bodies of India.
1. The National Commission for scheduled castes
2. The National Commission for women
3. The National Commission for Backward classes
4. The National Human Rights Commission
Which of the bodies given above is/are established by the constitution
of India?
(a) 1 only
(b) 1, 2 and 3 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1, 2, 3 and 4
Other Commissions & Miscellaneous
62. 1. The National Commission for Scheduled Tribes was
constituted under the Constitution (Eighty-ninth
Amendment) Act.
2. The first National Commission for Scheduled Tribes was
constituted in 2006.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct ?
(a) Only 1
(b) Only 2
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
63. The Twentieth Law Commission was constituted through a
government order with effect from 1st Sep. 2012. It has a three
year term ending on 31st Aug. 2015. Who is the chairman of the
commission? [NDA 2017]
(a) Justice D.K. Jain
(b) Justice J.S. Verma
(c) Justice Markanday Katju
(d) Justice M. Mualyal
64. Consider the following statements regarding law commission of
India:
1. Recently, the 20th law commission was constituted under the
chairmanship of D.K. Jain
2. The commission is constituted for a period of five years
3. Codification of the penal code, and the Criminal Procedure Code
were recommended by the law commission constituted
under charter Act of 1833.
Which of the statements given above are correct?
(a) 1 and 2 only
(b) 2 and 4 only
(c) 1 and 3 only
(d) 1,3 and 4 only
65. The Planning Commission has been abolished by the Prime
Minister [UP-PCS 2015]
(a) Narendra Modi
(b) Morarji Desai
(c) Atal Bihari Vajpayee
(d) I. K. Gujral
66. The tenure of the Chairman of the National Human Rights
Commission is – [MP-PSC 2017]
(a) 3 years
(b) 4 years
(c) 5 years
(d) 6 years
Attorney General & Advocate General
67. Who is the first Law Officer of the Government of India?
(a) Chief Justice of India
(b) Union Law Minister
(c) Attorney General of India
(d) Law Secretary
68. Who among the following holds his office at the pleasure of the
President?
(a) Chairman of the Union Public Service Commission
(b) Attorney General of India
(c) Speaker of the Lok Sabha
(d) Comptroller and Auditor General of India
69. Who among the following can attend the meetings of both
Houses of Parliament while being not a member of either of the
Houses?
(a) Solicitor-General of India
(b) Vice-President of India
(c) Comptroller and Auditor-General of India
(d) Attorney General of India
70. Who advises the Government of India on legal matters?
(a) Attorney General
(b) Chief justice of Supreme Court
(c) Chairman, Law Commission
(d) None of these
71. Consider the following statements:
1. The Attorney General of India is appointed by the President upon
the recommendation of the Chief Justice of Supreme Court.
2. The Attorney General of India has the right to speak in the
Parliament but he can’t vote.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) 1 only
(b) 2 only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
72. Consider the following statements about the attorney general of
India:
1. He is appointed by the President of India
2. He must have the same qualifications as required for a judge of
the Supreme Court
3. He must be a member of either House of Parliament
4. He can be removed by impeachment by Parliament
Which of these statements are correct?
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1 and 3
(c) 2, 3 and 4
(d) 3 and 4
73. Consider the following statements:
1. The Advocate General of a state in India is appointed by the
President of India upon the recommendation of the
Governor of the concerned state.
2. As provided in Civil procedure Code, High Courts have original
appellate and advisory jurisdiction at the state level
Which of the following statements is/are correct?
(a) 1 Only
(b) 2 Only
(c) Both 1 and 2
(d) Neither 1 nor 2
74. Consider the following statements about the Attorney-General of
India? [NDA 2007-II]
1. He is appointed by the President of India
2. He has the right to take part in the proceeding of the Parliament.
3. He has the right of audience in all courts in India.
Which of the statements given above are correct?
(a) 1 and 2
(b) 1 and 3
(c) 2 and 3
(d) All of these
75. Consider the following statements with respect to the Attorney
General of India [NDA 2009-I]
1. He is appointed by the President.
2. He must have the same qualifications as are required by a Judge
of High Court.
3. In the performance of his duties he shall have the right of
audience in all courts of India.
Which of the statements given above is/are correct?
(a) Only 1
(b) 1 and 3
(c) 2 and 3
(d) 1, 2 and 3
76. Which one of the following has the right to address the
Parliament? [UP-PCS 2011]
(a) Atorney General of India
(b) Chief Election Commissioner of India
(c) Chief Justice of India
(d) National Security Advisor
77. Which officer of the Government of india has the right to take
part in the proceedings of Parliament of India even though he is
not a member? [BPSC 2017]
(a) Vice - President
(b) Attorney General of India
(c) Comptroller and Auditor General
(d) Election Commissioner
78. Which of the following statement(s) is/are not correct about the
Attorney General of India?
1. The President appoints a person, who is qualified to be a Judge
of a High court, to be the Attorney General of India.
2. He has the right to audience in all the Courts of the country.
3. He has the right to take part in the Proceedings of the Lok Sabha
and the Rajya Sabha.
4. He has a fixed tenure.
Select the correct answer from the codes given below:
(a) 1 and 4
(b) 2, 3 and 4
(c) 3 and 4
(d) 3 only