1. (a) The maximum diversity is found in tropical rain forests.
Tropical forests are some of the richest areas on Earth.
About 80% of the world’s documented species can be found
in tropical rainforests.
2. (d) Eucalyptus is considered as environmental hazard due to
various reasons. Eucalyptus is responsible for replacing
indigenous forests in several parts of the world, depleting
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
food and shelter sources and therefore affecting animals
and birds. Growing Eucalyptus in low rainfall areas may
cause adverse environmental impacts due to competition
for water with other species.
3. (c) Destruction of habitat is one of the main reasons for
biodiversity decline.
4. (a) Biosphere reserves provides in-situ conservation of genetic
resources in natural populations of both flora or fauna . It is
actually on-site conservation of genetic resources in their
natural environment.
5. (b) The Red Data Book is the document for documenting rare
and endangered species of animals, plants and fungi as
well as some local sub-species that exist within the territory
of the state or country. It is published by International Union
for Conservation of Nature and Natural resources (IUCN).
6. (c) The concept of biodiversity hotspots was given by biologist
Norman Myers. A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic
region that is both a significant reservoir of biodiversity and
is threatened with destruction.
7. (d) The destruction of natural habitats of organisms,
environmental pollution, destruction of forests, these all are
responsible for decline in biodiversity.
8. (d) The greatest biodiversity of animal and plant species is
found in Equatorial evergreen forests.
9. (d) White-bellied Heron, Great Indian Bustard and Forest Owlet
are among the endangered birds of India. Mallard is not an
endangered bird in India.
10. (c) Biotic potential is the ability of a population of living species
to increase under ideal environmental conditions that is
absence of predators and lack of disease with sufficient
food supply.
11. (b) Multiple cropping with legumes can increase the nitrogen
availability in soil which will significantly reduce the need for
fertilizers.
12. (b) The modification in leaf size in dry regions is a way to
reduce the rate of transpiration and sustain the survival of
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
plant by reducing water loss. Leaves may be modified into
thorns and other structures in many desert plants.
13. (b) Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest
degradation (REDD plus) is a mechanism developed by
Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change. It creates a financial value for the carbon stored in
forests by offering incentives for developing countries to
reduce emissions from forested lands and invest in lowcarbon paths to sustainable development. Developing
countries would receive results-based payments for resultsbased actions.
14. (b) Green manure is manure obtained from undecomposed
green plant material. Sunnhemp is one of the most
important green manure crops along with dhaincha,
clusterbeans, Sesbania rostrata and others.
15. (b) Eucalyptus is preferred over many other trees in planned
forestation because the plant grows very fast and the fibre
obtained from it is used as a source for pulp in paper
industry.
16. (c) Polar bears and penguins never coexist under natural
conditions. Polar bears live in the North Pole while the
Penguin lives in the South Pole.
17. (a) Natural vegetation is the true index of climate because
water loving plants are found in moist climate.
18. (c) The National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) an autonomous
body is established in 2003 to implement India’s Biological
Diversity Act (2002).
19. (b) Bandipur National Park, a tiger reserve is located in the
south Indian state of Karnataka.
Manas National Park or Manas Wildlife Sanctuary is a National
Park, UNESCO Natural World Heritage site, a Project Tiger
Reserve, an Elephant Reserve and a Biosphere Reserve in
Assam. The Sundarban National Park is a National Park,
Tiger Reserve, and a Biosphere Reserve in India. It is a part
of the Sundarbans on the Ganges Delta of India and
Bangladesh.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Bhitarkanika National Park is a national park located in the
Kendrapara District Odisha, which is not specifically for
Tiger reserve.
20. (c) Global Warming, fragmentation of habitat and invasion of
alien species can be threats to the bio-diversity of a
geographical area.
21. (c) There is an increase in biodiversity from the poles to the
tropics. Thus localities at lower latitudes have more species
than localities at higher latitudes.
22. (b) The IUCN Red list of threatened species or the Red Data
Book is the state document established for documenting
rare and endangered species of animals, plants and fungi
existing within the territory of the state or country.
23. (d) Biological diversity helps in the formation and maintenance
of soil structure and the retention of moisture and nutrient
levels. Trees on the other hand, lower the water table and
remove deposited salt from the upper soil horizons.
24. (b) A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a
significant reservoir of biodiversity that is under threat from
humans. Around the world, as many as 25 areas qualify to
be the hotspots. Out of which India has 2 hotspots: Eastern
Himalayas and Western Ghats.
25. (c) Keystone species are not necessarily small sized though
they greatly effect the environment. They play a very critical
role in maintaining the structure of an ecological community
by affecting many other organisms. An ecosystem may
experience a dramatic shift if a keystone species is
removed, even though that species may be small part of the
ecosystem by measures of biomass or productivity.
26. (a) Mangrove- plants have higher concentration of salts and
minerals (solutes, such as proline and sorbitol) in the cells
making their osmotic potential higher than the surrounding
water in which they grow. This is a type of adaptation that
allows water uptake by the plants in spite of growing in salty
waters. Some mangroves also pump out excess salt by
specialised roots.
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
27. (c) A new online Atlas of freshwater biodiversity has been
launched on 29 January, 2014. It will present spatial
information and species distribution patterns. The Atlas is
an output of BioFresh – an EU-funded project in which the
IUCN Global Species Programme is a key partner. It is
working to better understand, manage and protect our
freshwaters, for generations to come.
28. (b) IUCN, the world’s oldest and largest global environmental
organization, is celebrating its completion of 50 years. It
was founded in 1948. It lists out all types of organisms
vulnerable to any kind of loss, in its Red data book.
29. (c) It is believed that other sea creatures such as turtles,
sharks and whales may also use Earth’s magnetic field to
roam the oceans.
The 17-year-old Machli is the longest living wild tigress in the
world, besides being the most photographed big cat. The
tigress was identified as T-16. Machli had survived in the
dense forest by hunting her own prey despite her advanced
age.
30. (d) Other reasons for the decline in the number of these birds
are changes in cropping pattern due to various reasons
including implementation of irrigation schemes; increased
pesticide usage and livestock-grazing; high levels of
disturbance; and developmental activities like mining and
hydel projects. This also includes collision of the birds with
vehicles, wind turbines and power lines
31. (c) The IUCN also provides the information that is related to
species-based conservation actions. It also helps in
identifying globally important sites for conservation including
important plant areas, important bird areas, key biodiversity
areas and alliance for zero extinction sites. It helps in
influencing the decisions of conservation at multiple scales
that include environmental impact assessments to
international multilateral environment agreements. It
indicates the current status of species and revealing trends
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
in their extinction risk over time, to track progress towards
biodiversity targets.
32. (d) For conservation of endangered species Wildlife Crime
Control Bureau has been established for control of illegal
trade in wildlife, including endangered species of birds and
their parts and products. Research and monitoring activities
on birds are promoted by the Government through reputed
research organizations. Wildlife Institute of India, Bombay
Natural History society and Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology
and Natural History are some of the research organizations
undertaking research on conservation of birds. The Indian
government has banned the veterinary use of diclofenac
drug that has caused rapid decline in vulture population
across the Indian Subcontinent. Conservation Breeding
Programmes to conserve these vulture species have been
initiated at Pinjore (Haryana), Buxa (West Bengal) and
Rani, Guwahati (Assam) by the Bombay Natural History
Society.
33. (b) The veterinary drug Diclofenac that is used in vetting the
cattle has been identified as a reason that is causing the
sharp decline in the number of vultures. Use of this drug
has been banned in India. Diclofenac is toxic for any and all
vultures that feed on the carcass of recently treated cattle.
Saving Asia’s Vultures from Extinction (SAVE) in its study
says that the version for human use is being illegally given
to the cattle. A programme named SAVE in its plan will
release up to 25 birds into the 30000 kilometer square safe
zone. The captive-bred birds will be released into the wild
by 2016 under the project.
34. (b) Tree foundation, an NGO engaged in conservation of the
sea turtle, found more than 100 dead Olive Ridley turtles in
the shores of Nagapattinam. The Olive Ridley turtles are
rusty coloured carapace and have slightly smaller head and
shell than the Kemp turtles. These Olive Ridley turtles
generally occur through the Antilles, around the north coast
of South America, in West Africa, the Indian Ocean,
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
Australia and Southeast Asia. As per the reports, the
populations of Olive Riddles have declined in Pakistan,
Myanmar, Malaysia and Thailand, and possibly on the east
coast of India, south of Orissa and in the Andaman and
Nicobar islands.
35. (c) Along with the first 3 species Mystus menoni species of
Catfish were discovered from the Manimala river. Catfish
are freshwater, bottom-dwelling fish. Unlike other fish, they
have no scales and are smooth-skinned. They are known
for growing whiskers, called “barbels,” at some point during
their lifespan. Catfish use their barbels as feelers as they
swim along the bottom of the various bodies of water in
which they live. There are 2,900 species of catfish
worldwide. They range in size from 1.5 to 2 in chesto more
than 8 feet in length.
36. (c) Magellanics are medium-sized penguins standing about 15
inches tall and weighing about 10 pounds. Males of the
species sound like braying donkeys when they vocalize.
Among 17 species of penguins, 10 including Magellancis
breeds are found in the region, where there is no snow, it is
relatively dry and temperatures can be temperate. To
protect the chicks, parents are too big to sit over and those
are still too young to have grown waterproof feathers.
Downy penguin chicks exposed to drenching rain can
struggle and die in absence of the attention of their
concerned parents. During extreme heat, chicks without
waterproofing can’t take a dip in cooling waters as adults.
37. (d) Dung beetles and disease carrying flies both compete for
the same food, that is cattle droppings. Since both of these
organisms belong to different species, this competition is
called interspecific competition. Mutualism is an association
shown by two species where both the species in concern
are equally benefitted. E.g. the symbiotic association
between nitrogen fixing bacteria and roots of leguminous
plants. Commensalism is a type of association between two
species where one is benefitted and the other is unaffected
join telegram https://t.me/reetmaterials2
e.g. helpful bacteria in the gut of human being. Intraspecific
competition is the competition within the members of a
species for food, shelter and mate.
38. (d) The flea beetles have proved to be an effective means of
controlling leafy spurge. The flea beetles typically take 3-5
years to establish and impact leafy spurge infestations.
39. (b) The concept of biodiversity hotspot was given by Norman
Myers. In 1988 he first identified 10 tropical forest “hotspots”
characterised by both exceptional level of plant endemism
and by serious levels of habitat loss. Later on, Conservation
International (CI) adopted Myers’ hotspots. They gave a
broad definition criteria of the Biodiversity hotspot.
40. (a) Biodiversity hotspots are areas rich in plant species and
these species are endemic to this area. Endemism implies
the presence of species in particular area only.
41. (a) Tiger is given as Schedule I animal. So “A” is correct.
42. (d) The schedule 5 vermin- crow, fruitbat, mice and rat can be
killed. Since the animals given in above MCQ are outside
that list hence answer is “D”.
43. (b) Gharials are river dwelling fish-eaters and their only viable
population is in the Chambal Sanctuary. So “B” should be
the answer.
44. (c) Statement 1 is right (by common knowledge) but for the
sake of reference- NCERT Class 12 biology page 30! This
eliminates “B”. Second statement should be wrong because
of the extreme word “drastic”. This eliminates “D”. Besides
I’m unable to find any specific reference that mentions
linkage between butterfly population vs fungus infection.
Birds and spiders tend to prey on butterflies (by common
knowledge) so statement 3 is a possible outcome.