1. The ability to ...................... the feelings, emotions and
problems conveyed by the opposite party is an important
aspect of Interpersonal skills.
(a) confront (b) allay
(c) understand (d) remove
2. It is often surprising that the candidates who have academic
excellence do not necessarily ...................... top positions in
companies due to lack of interpersonal skills.
(a) seek (b) land
(c) achieve (d) upload
3. Technologically advanced methods of communication such
as Email, audio and video conferencing require at
least...................... interpersonal communication skills.
(a) excellent (b) improved
(c) basic (d) serious
4. All of us have our own needs to fulfill. The ability to .................
to the needs of others without completely sacrificing our
own is an important aspect of interpersonal communication
skills.
(a) attenuate (b) accommodate
(c) focus (d) scrutinise
5. A successful leader has (i)...................... intercommunication
skills; he is able to (ii)...................... his colleagues and juniors
to his way of thinking without ruffling their feathers
(i) packed (ii) argue
(i) colorful (ii) conceptualize
(c) (i) effective (ii) rectify
(d) (i) skeptical (ii) persuade
6. In the metros especially in Delhi which is called a mini India
people from diverse cultures and social backgrounds work
together as a team adding their own (i) ......................, insights,
perspectives and skills to the (ii) ...................... whole.
(a) (i) Knowledge (ii) coagulative
(b) (i) Vocabulary (ii) collective
(c) (i) Patience (ii) cognitive
(d) (i) Ideology (ii) interactive
7. In the modern world of Information technology, where
computers play a very important part Interpersonal skills are
useful not only in face to face communication but can also
be put to good use in the ...................... world.
(a) real (b) scientific
(c) virtual (d) under
8. A leader has the ability to ..................... others through
qualities such as a good personality expertise, command of
language, and the creation of mutual respect; all of which
require strong interpersonal skills.
(a) impact (b) effect
(c) control (d) dominate
9. Interpersonal skills include the ability to ..................... the
emotions, motivations, and behaviors of oneself and others
during social interactions
(a) influence (b) affect
(c) manage (d) control
10. Those who have interpersonal skills are able to manage their
behavior during social interactions and ..............their goals
to the goals of others while working as a team.
(a) adjust (b) align
(c) put forth (d) award
11. They are able to empathize and are .................to the needs of
others and to the forces that mould the way that others feel
and behave.
(a) affected (b) worried
(c) sensitive (d) bothered
12. They manage conflict effectively by devising win-win
solutions, constructively influencing the behavior of others,
and using effective communication ...............
(a) targets (b) weapons
(c) strategies (d) goals
13. Many have wondered how it happens that persons with
high IQs don't always get the top jobs: the answer often lies
in .........................skills.
(a) intrapersonal (b) interpersonal
(c) orative (d) writing
14. Modern teamwork often brings together individuals from
diverse groups who may not share common norms, values,
or salaries but who do offer ................... expertise, insights,
and perspectives.
(a) strange (b) unique
(c) wonderful (d) special
15. E-mail, voice mail, audio conferencing and
videoconferencing, and the ....................other technologies
that enable individuals to communicate with each other not
only increase the ways in which individuals can interact but
also require a heightened sensitivity to the innuendos of
interpersonal interactions.
(a) myriad (b) different
(c) separate (d) creative
Exercise
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.7
16. This idea is particularly true in the worlds of virtual learning
and virtual ...................., where one cannot yet use hand
gestures, facial expressions, or body language to fully
express ideas.
(a) chatting (b) teaching
(c) admissions (d) communication
17. The challenge is to perfect interpersonal skills not only in
................... interactions but in virtual interactions as well.
(a) real
(b) face-to-face
(c) social
(d) logical
18. Wadekar submitted his resignation because
(a) he was depressed
(b) he felt insulted and let down
(c) he was angry
(d) he had no faith on anyone
19. If you were Wadekar what would you have done?
(a) submitted your resignation
(b) fought with your detractors
(c) continued to work stoically
(d) complained to your superiors
20. According to you what was wrong with Wadekar's attitude?
(a) He was too sensitive
(b) He was a loser
(c) He was very egoistic
(d) He lacked patience

21. Why do you think Rakesh reported the matter to the
commissioner
(a) he did not like Sameer
(b) he wanted to create an impression on the commissioner
(c) he was so honest and principled that he could not
tolerate Sameer's nepotism
(d) he hoped to get a promotion by exposing Sameer.
22. The two become sworn enemies when
(a) the MLA favored one over the other
(b) they fought with each other
(c) Sameer was suspended for corrupt practices
(d) they developed different out-looks
23. What would you have done had you been in Sameer's place?
(a) I would have requested the MLA to use his own
resources
(b) I would have sent him back to Rakesh
(c) I would have expressed my inability to interfere in the
given situation
(d) both (a) and (c)
24. Do you think Rakesh did the right thing by complaining to
the commissioner?
What would you have done ?
(a) No. I would have overloked the whole episode
(b) Yes. I would want the guilty to be punished
(c) No. I would have reasoned with Rakesh
(d) Yes. I would not want Rakesh to get ahead of me.

25. Do you think she did the right thing by going on a long
leave? Why?
(a) No, She should have faced the problem
(b) Yes, it is better to avoid a confrontation
(c) No, she should have spoken to the media
(d) Yes, She needed a break
26. What would you have done had you been in her place?
(a) I would have gone in for voluntary retirement.
(b) I would have reported the matter to my superiors.
(c) I would have held a discussion with my section officer.
(d) I would have applied for a transfer from the section.

27. Kunjan resigned from the IPS in protest. Why?
(a) She wanted to be the commissioner
(b) She was pressurised by her family
(c) Her superiors asked her to resign.
(d) One of her male colleagues was made the commissioner.
28. Her chances of becoming the police commissioner was very
bright because
(a) she was ambitious
(b) she was loved by all
(c) her performance record was perfect
(d) she was competing with two male colleagues
29. Do you think Kunjan reacted rightly? Why?
(a) Yes after all she had worked so hard for the country.
(b) No she should been more patient. Talent never goes
under unrewarded.
(c) Yes. There is something wrong with the system.
(d) No. she should have protest in some other way.
30. Rajat's superiors were impressed with
(a) his ability to work long hours
(b) the honesty and integrity in all his dealings
(c) his communication abilities
(d) his outstanding academic record.
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.9
31. His promotion as a manager was conditional because
(a) he could either accept or deny it
(b) he would have to remain unmarried
(c) he would now have to work in a for- flung village
32. The villagers loved Rajat because
(a) he worked very hard
(b) he was their guest
(c) he held a powerful position
(d) he was humble and sympathetic
33. The farmers in the village were worried because
(a) The crops had failed that year
(b) they were unable to pay their debts
(c) they were being harassed by the money lenders
(d) both (b) and (c)
34. Why do you think the farmer's sougth Rajat's help?
(a) he was the manager of the village bank
(b) they knew he cared for them
(c) he was kind and compassionate
(d) both (a) and (c)
35. Rajat sought permission from the head office to
(a) get loans sanctioned to atleast some of the farmers.
(b) help the farmers grow more crops
(c) issue a warning to the money lenders
(d) go on a long leave
36. Rajat decided to take matters into his own hands because
(a) there was no response from the head office
(b) one or two farmers had committed suicide
(c) he was desperate
(d) all of the above
37. His seniors at the bank were so angry that they
(a) called him back
(b) fired him
(c) suspended him
(d) filed an FIR against him
38. Had you been in Rajat's shoes what world you have done?
(a) I would have made repeated appeals to the Head office
(b) I would have gone down to the head office and spoken
directly to the manager along with the evidence
(c) I would have arranged for funds from elsewhere
(d) I would have taken the money lenders to task.
Choose the correct answer:
39. On a particularly difficult day, you are the only officer
available to deal with the public you would
(a) ask for additional staff
(b) take a leave
(c) just do your portion of the work
(d) do your level best to solve the problems of the people
40. If you get angry due to unforeseen circumstances at the
workplace, you would
(a) get violent
(b) maintain a stony silence
(c) try to occupy your mind with something else
(d) walk away in a huff
41. If you are an officer in the civil services and find that one of
your juniors is not working properly you would
(a) suspend him
(b) warn him
(c) talk to your superiors about him
(d) talk to him and try to find out his problem
42. If from the underworld someone wins up with a request for
revealing government secrets in exchange for an undisclosed
very lucrative reward you would
(a) postpone the matter
(b) report the matter to your superiors
(c) say yes without hesitation
(d) say no without any hesitation.
43. Two of your closest colleagues are having strained relations
how will you handle the situation?
(a) speak to each of then separately
(b) discuss the problem with them
(c) ask them to avoid each other
(d) Pretend that you know nothing about it

44. According to you, why Leela, complained about Saritha?
(a) She was acting bossy
(b) Leela is Jealous of Saritha
(c) Saritha is making her very hard
(d) Professional differences
45. Leela's concern about Saritha is because of :
(a) She is afraid of Saritha's growing authority
(b) A very tough boss.
(c) Threat to her job.
(d) Threat to her performance & career.
46. Saritha's reaction to Sankar's enquiry shows :
(a) Her devotion for the company.
(b) Her concern for quality work.
(c) She is a perfectionist by nature.
(d) Her frustration about the subordinates
47. According to you, the problem with Saritha is:
(a) She has no management experience
(b) She lacks leadership
(c) Too concerned about quality
(d) Her obsession with perfection
48. If you were Sankar, what would have done?
(a) Promoted Leela
(b) Demoted Leela
(c) Ignored the issue
(d) Introduced conflict-resolving interventions

49. Vijesh turned down Anshul proposal for renovation because:
(a) Renovation expenditure was unnecessary.
(b) He wanted to show his displeasure.
(c) Anshul was again trying to take unnecessary
advantage/favour.
(d) Vijesh wanted cut down cost for the college
50. Director, Riteshan partially approved Anshul's proposal
because :
(a) He didn't want to disappoint Anshul.
(b) Anshul's proposal was genuine.
(c) Partial renovation was required.
(d) Both (c) and (a)
51. According to you this kind of confrontation can be best
described by :
(a) Inter-Individual
(b) Intra-Individual
(c) Inter-Personal
(d) Organisational

52. Ritesh's negligent behaviour is due to :-
(a) Ritesh's not being promoted
(b) Ritesh's attitude toward Krishnan
(c) Krishnan's attitude toward Ritesh
(d) Ritesh's perception of injustice
53. Ritesh's writing poetry in office is :-
(a) His pass time
(b) His way to give vent to his feelings
(c) His serious decision to switch careers
(d) His reply to Krishnan's biased behaviour
54. Ritesh's behaviour of neglecting work and writing poems
is :-
(a) Angry behaviour
(b) Frustrated behaviour
(c) Normal behaviour
(d) Constructive behaviour
55. Whose responsibility is it to break this deadlock between
Ritesh and Krishnan?
(a) Only Krishnan's
(b) Only Ritesh's
(c) Both Ritesh & Krishnan
(d) There is no need

56. The case deals with?
(a) Rain problems in Mumbai
(b) Distances causing difficulties to workers
(c) Absenteeism
(d) Worker-Management relations in solving issues
1.12 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
57. ''A large number of workers didn't come to work or reported
late due to heavy downpour & disruption of transport
services'' - This shows?
(a) Workers commitment to work
(b) Their casual attitude toward work
(c) Indiscipline & Misbehaviour
(d) Their being opportunistic
58. Some of the officers also didn't come to work due to rain :-
(a) The situation was really difficult
(b) They were having a good time
(c) They are not scared of management
(d) Rules for them are different
59. Officers present that day pressed for 'No-Work-No-Pay'
because?
(a) They really felt that way
(b) They wanted to support the management
(c) They wanted to teach absenting workers a lesson
(d) They wanted to somehow harm the position of
absenting officers
60. The General Manager seems to be :-
(a) A very professional man
(b) A welfare loving man
(c) A confused person
(d) An able Manager faced with conflicting alternatives
61. Legalist approach of one of the unions is reflective of?
(a) Their love of law & order
(b) Their perceived superiority over the other two unions
because of their white collar membership
(c) They are hand-in-glove with management
(d) Their constant endeavour to show the other two unions
down
Choose the right Answer:
62. There was much ruckus created before the hosting of the
common wealth games about the poor conditions in the
games village. The Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit was the
main target of criticism. Had you been in her place how you
have reacted to the whole situation
(a) I would have pulled up the media for unnecessary
defamation of the country.
(b) I would have inspected the site and then supervised
the renovation of the whole place.
(c) I would have held a meeting of heads all departments
and requested them to rectify their mistakes
(d) I would have threatened to stop payments to all people
concerned unless the whole situation was rectified
63. The government has banned the use of polythene bags but
these bags are still being used rampantly. As an animal
rights activist you are getting increasingly concerned with
the death of cows due to consumption of plastic bags.
How will you get people to follow the law?
. (a) Bring up the matter in the media
(b) File a petition in the court
(c) Hold a public meeting on the issue
(d) both (a) and (b)
64. The CBSE grading system is not going down very well with
parents, teachers and even a section of the students. This
is brought to the notice of the CBSE chairman during a
conference of the chair persons from different states. He
is quite disturbed and decides to do something about it.
What do you think would be the best course of action?
(a) He should wait for a few more sessions and see how
the system can be changed
(b) He should call for a meeting and build a general
consensus on the issue
(c) He should make some modifications to the system
(d) He should ignore the messages as nothing but
rumours.
65. Recently there was a shocking incident about a sessions
judge demanding dowry in his own marriage. The dowry
system should be completely eradicated. It is quite clear
that only making laws will not do. If you were in the judge's
shoes how would you help to get rid of this poisonous
system?
(a) I would ask my father in law to present a pen as dowry
for my marriage
(b) I would not take a single paisa but make sure that the
marriage got wide media coverage.
(c) I would go in for a registered marriage
(d) both (a) and (c)
66. Stories of adulterated foodstuff are unfortunately quite.
Perhaps this is one of the main reasons why the number
of people falling sick is increasing day by day. As Food
Inspector of your area what major steps would you take
to bring this problem under control?
(a) The punishment to people caught in the act will be
to cancel their licences and prevent them from
supplying food in the future.
(b) Conduct regular raids on food factories
(c) Take suspicious characters to the police station for
questioning
(d) both (a) and (b)
67. If your best friend and batch mate wants to borrow a certain
sum of money from you, say Rs 50,000
(a) you would refuse
(b) you would try to postpone the matter
(c) ask him/ her for what purpose the money is needed
and then decide accordingly
(d) give the money immediately; after all he is your best
friend.
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.13
68. The Jessica Lall murder case has once again caught the
attention of the public since a film is being made on the
same. Had you been a member of the victim's family, would
have allowed such a film to be made? Why or why not?
(a) I would not allow such a film to be made as it would
open up old wounds
(b) I would allow the film to be made provided the facts
were depicted as it is
(c) It would serve as a lesson to the general public
(d) both (b) and (c)
69. You had gone to visit Amritsar and happened to attend
the function at the much talked about Wagah border. Due
to strict security regulation you got separated from your
spouse. How would you handle such a situation?
(a) I would wait for my spouse at the place where we
deposited our belongings
(b) I would wait at the entrance so that my spouse would
join me soon
(c) I would ask the security personnel to help me out.
(d) I would hold up a placecard to help my spouse locate me
70. The day before the interview for the civil services is to take
place a neighbour who is an IAS officer tells you that it
is extremely difficult to get through. You
(a) stop preparing and start calling up your coaching centre
(b) console yourself saying that there are always other
options available
(c) go and visit all the nearby temples promising to give
god a gold coin if you get through
(d) don't bother much as you are fully confident that you
have prepared well
71. What are your work habits like? You
(a) prefer to work during the day only
(b) you are a nightbird
(c) can work extra hours if required
(d) require an afternoon gap
72. You are holding a high position in the state government.
A junior officer has the temerity to point out a few silly
mistakes made by you while implementing a particular
project
(a) you get very angry and issue a suspension letter
(b) you just ignore him and ask him to mind his own
business
(c) you feel very upset and miserable but deal with it
tactfully
(d) you are thankful that you are getting a chance to
rectify your errors
73. Your arch-rival during your college days has met with an
accident. You come to know of this from a common friend.
Your immediate reaction is
(a) one of absolute indifference
(b) you feel sorry for him but feel that life has to go on
(c) you feel that he has only paid for his mistakes.
(d) you decide to go and meet him in the hospital
74. Your immediate boss takes all the credit for an important
project on which you had spent sleepless nights you decide
to
(a) take a transfer
(b) continue working hard stoically
(c) learn from your mistakes
(d) tell all that it is you who did all the work
75. Which would the most important factor which will help you
to decide whether to take up a job for which you have been
selected?
(a) the salary
(b) chances for promotion and growth
(c) the freedom to implement some of your own ideas at
the work place
(d) all the above
76. Ragging has been banned in colleges still one comes across
instances of ragging especially in Engineering colleges. As
Education Minister what steps would you take to put a
complete end to this practice
(a) Take more stringent legal action against the wrong doers
(b) Debar them from persuing further studies in India
(c) appoint special Inspectors in school to keep a check
on Ragging
(d) all of the above
77. The newly constructed Metro Railway services are
beginning to report technical snags almost everyday. If you
were in charge of the Metro Railway Corporation what steps
would you take to put a stop to these persistent problems
(a) Pull the metro staff up for inefficiency
(b) Suspend the services for a few months
(c) Educate the commuters about how to deal with such
situations.
(d) Employ highly skilled engineers for trouble shooting.
78. The U.S. President Obama visited India in 2010. One his
main purposes were to create more jobs for his countrymen.
The Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh clearly
stated that Indians were not trying to steal U.S. jobs. If you
were the US President what steps would you take to root
out the problem of rising unemployment in your country.
(a) make strict laws to stop outsourcing
(b) tell Americans to stop all dealings with India.
(c) tell Americans to build their skills to bring them on par
with other nations and to take more qualifications
(d) start sending Americans abroad to work.
79. One is constantly hearing of passwords being lacked on the
internet. Suppose that you are the manager of a famous
bank. And your site has been hacked. What immediate steps
would you take?
(a) Close the site down for a few days
(b) change the passwords
(c) Install more efficient security software
(d) all of the above
1.14 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
80. Do you think that one should change his job often and
face new situation?
(a) No, unless compelled one should not leave his old job
(b) Yes, every new job is challenging and one should
accept the challenge
(c) No, as it takes time to get adjusted
(d) No, as the new situation may not suit you
81. What will you do if you find an aged person who has lost
his road orientation?
(a) Avoid the matter totally
(b) Help him with some money
(c) Collect the necessary information related to his
destination and guide him accurately
(d) Just show sympathy and give suggestion to contact
the nearest police station.
82. You are suffering from diabetes. when you see a whole lot
of chocolates, you are tempted to eat them. But you also
realise that they are not good for you in the long run. What
do you do?
(a) You would not eat them because you know the
harmful effects.
(b) You decide not to eat them but keep thinking about
them.
(c) You would eat them but feel guilty about what you
have done.
(d) You would give in to the temptation and eat the
chocolates without being bothered about the
consequences.
83. You have worked hard on an idea which you believe would
be a breakthrough. But the presentation does not go as
you had hoped it would. You
(a) ignore all the suggestions and believe that you were
correct
(b) break down and get all emotional
(c) take this as a learning experience and convince
yourself that you would do better next time
(d) feel like a loser
84. Your colleague is not performing his duties up to the mark.
You will
(a) just do your part of the duties and enjoy your work
(b) take advantage of it to promote yourself
(c) report the matter to the seniors
(d) try and handle his customers to maintain the
company's status
85. The Lajpat Nagar and Sarojini Nagar bomb blasts in the
capital are targeted which will be hard to forget. Had you
been among the survivors in such a bomb blast what would
have been your first instinct under such trying conditions?
(a) I would have immediately started looking for my near
and dear ones.
(b) I would have been too shocked to react.
(c) I would have tried to help save as many people as I
could.
(d) both (a) and (c).
86. Your boss has given you some urgent assignment at the
last minute. What would you do?
(a) Try to finish the job as per its requirement
(b) Tell him that you would do it next day.
(c) Request one of your colleagues to help you
(d) None of these.
87. Your bathroom tap is leaking and is very noisy you would
(a) sleep with pillows upon your ears
(b) put a bucket underneath
(c) try to put up a cork upon the mouth of the tap
(d) call a plumber to repair the tap.
88. You are a social worker. On visiting an orphanage, there
is one child who is not ready to let you go away.
(a) You ignore the child because you have other kids to
attend.
(b) You leave with no concern.
(c) You decide to visit him every Sunday.
(d) You talk to the authorities and arrange for parents who
can adopt him.
89. You are a team leader and you are supposed to hold a
convention on HR issues. But your team members are
unable to get adequate sponsorship.
(a) You put in your money and hold the event as
scheduled
(b) You try and motivate them that they can do it.
(c) You postpone the event and give them some more
time.
(d) You tell them things can not work out like this and
cancel the event.
90. After your graduation, you are offered a well-paid
government job. However, your friend says that you have
to bribe to get the appointment order. You
(a) go to some influential politician who can help
(b) accept the job by paying the bribe, consoling yourself
that this is the present social setup
(c) accept the job by paying the bribe, but firmly resolve
that this is the last time you will pay bribe
(d) flatly refuse the offer.
91. The Haryana Chief Minister Hooda had a shoe hurled at
him for the second time in four months. Many have our
leaders have had to pass through this better experience of
having shoes hurled at them. If you had been in their place
how would you have reacted to such harassment?
(a) Pulled up the security personnel for a lapse of duty
on their part
(b) Would have put the culprits in prison.
(c) Remained unfazed
(d) Used it as a weapon to gain publicity
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.15
92. It has already been predicted that the world will be
destroyed in 2012. Experts have now come up with some
scientific evidence to boot. The luminousily of the Northern
Lights will increase and mobile phones, National grids and
global positioning systems will trip. As chairman of the
ISRO you are highly disturbed and resolve to
(a) put corrective systems in place as fast as possible to
prevent such an occurrence.
(b) to carry out a detailed research about the validity of
such an argument
(c) to assess the extent of damage that may take place.
(d) all of the above.
93. Human brain stem cells can be grown in rats. There is hope
for patients of epilepsy and Parkinson's disease; on hearing
this news as head of the neuroscience department of AIIMS
you resolve to
(a) start research on this immediately
(b) approach the state government for funds for this
research.
(c) Convey the good news to your patients
(d) (a) and (b) only.
94. Whey you pass by a dead body, you
(a) feel like crying and keep thinking about it for the rest
of the day
(b) join hands in prayer
(c) don't fear death, so remain unperturbed
(d) get captured by the memory of a recent death in your
family
95. When communicating information on an important company
policy change, what sort of medium would you choose?
(a) Written communication alone
(b) Oral communication alone
(c) Written communication followed by oral communication
(d) Oral communication followed by written communication
96. An angry customer wants to meet the senior manager for
grievance reporting. What will you do?
(a) Talk to him yourself.
(b) Be patient and try to cool him down
(c) Try to remove his inconvenience by consulting seniors
(d) Tell him it is not easy to meet the senior manager.
97. You
(a) get upset when others do not behave properly
(b) are least interested about what others are thinking
about you
(c) can keep your face smiling even when you are terribly
disgusted
(d) feel that you should not conceal your attitude from
others
98. Friendship to you is
(a) a conditional relationship
(b) an emotional language
(c) a burden
(d) an understanding between two or more people.
99. Oprah Winfrey has been adjudged as the most charitable
celebrity. If you were in Oprah's place what precautions
would you take to ensure that all the money was spent for
the targeted causes?
(a) ask my staff to do a complete research before the
money is handed over
(b) employ staff to keep a track of the money after it
changes hands
(c) give money only to highly reputed organisations
(d) be happy to have been of use to someone and think
no more about it.
100. Bill Gates is known the world over for having changed
people's lives with technology. Almost everyone knows
that Gates was a class IX drop out. Hand you been in Gates
place at that particular point of time how would you have
reacted?
(a) I would have felt very demoralised and disheartened.
(b) I would have resolved to continue my education.
(c) I would have resolved to look for a job.
(d) I would have been too absorbed in my computer to
bother much about it.
101. The use of perfume, hour spray, deodorants and other
cosmetics can damage the ozone layer. Under such
conditions what would you do?
(a) Stop using cosmetics altogether
(b) Use them but not frequently
(c) not be bothered
(d) Tell others to stop using them too
102. The headlines say Sun Pharma eyes $ 300 million acquisition
in U.S. Suppose you are the head of Sun pharma you would-
(a) throw a celebration party
(b) follow a wait and watch policy
(c) Move out of India.
(d) Start making further plans.
103. The Logistic Industry is having excellent growth prospect.
So from Reliance to Cafe Coffee day, India is queuing up for
a share of the logistics pie. If you we the Managing Director
of Reliance how would you react to this news?
(a) Start looking for quick acquisition
(b) Carry out a detailed study
(c) Be indifferent.
(d) See what others do.
104. Saina Nehwal becomes world role in badminton rankings
after beating China. If you were Saina-
(a) you would be deliriously happy
(b) you would resolve to work even harder
(c) you would accept that the No. 1 spot is a distant dream
(d) all of the above
1.16 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
105. Your college has organised a blood donation camp. You
(a) persuade your friends to donate
(b) donate your blood at the camp
(c) do not believe in donating blood and decide not to attend
(d) yourself do not believe in donating blood but ask
others to do so
106. You are in a new place and you want to go shopping. What
is the most likely thing that you would do?
(a) You totally drop the idea of shopping
(b) Find out the place on your own
(c) Ask someone who knows the place, to come with you
(d) Ask someone else to do shopping for you
107. You have a pharmaceutical company. You have received
information that someone who is not an employee has
tampered with a certain types of tablets in a specific area,
which has caused some deaths in that area. In this type
of crisis, what will you do?
(a) This incident can have a negative effect on your
company's reputation and earnings and can lead to
loss.
In order to avoid this you don't launch a campaign
to alert the people.
(b) Launch a campaign to alert the public and recall tablets
from the specific area
(c) Recall tablets from only the specific area and not the
whole country
(d) Recall those tablets from the entire country despite the
fact that the tampering of tablets occurred in a certain area
108. After having committed to your family that you would be
taking them out on a vacation, you suddenly find yourself
wanted in a board meeting which unfortunately clashes with
the vacation. What would you do?
(a) Assuming it to be urgent, start making necessary
arrangement to ensure that the reason for the meeting
is fulfilled, thus cancelling the vacation
(b) Find out what the urgent meeting is all about and make
necessary arrangements and postpone your vacation
(c) Proceed with your vacation plans without making any
arrangement
(d) Try and get out of that situation by asking your
colleague to cover up for you.
109. You are getting late for your college and no bus is available.
In such a situation
(a) you start walking
(b) you drop the idea of going to college that day and
return home
(c) you think about other possible conveyance
(d) you wait patiently for the bus though you are late for
the class
110. Soon diabetics will be able to make their insulin. This is
the magic of stem cell technology. As a diabetologist what
do you think will happen when diabetics start making their
own insulin?
(a) It is will not be easily affordable.
(b) Only the elites will use it.
(c) The services of a diabetologist will no longer be
required
(d) (a) and (b) only
111. Grandparents are getting young at heart too. More and more
grandparents are moving out of their children's homes and
spending a happy post-retirement life. If you are such a
grandparent yourself; what will be your take on the subject?
(a) I would like to book a retirement home in Goa.
(b) I would prefer to stay back with my children
(c) I would first discuss this with my friends
(d) I believe that sacrifices are rewarded in heaven if not
on earth.
112. R.K. Srivastava, secretary in charge of SC/ST/OBC and
minority welfare was arrested to ensure his presence at a
hearing. As R.K. Srivastava what is your opinion on the
matter?
(a) I was not feeling well enough to attend the hearing.
(b) This is not the way to treat a civil servant.
(c) I will have to discuss the matter with my seniors
(d) Even I have to follow rules, it was a lapse on my part.
113. According to the Centre for Science and Environmental
studies the mix of ozone, Carbonmonoxide and Nitrogen
Oxides in the atmosphere is pushing up pollution levels in
the capital. As minister for environment what steps are you
going to take to control this?
(a) All vehicles will have to be compulsorily told to use
CNG only
(b) Reduce the number of vehicles
(c) Resettle factories outside NCT
(d) (a) and (c) only
114. There are lots of stray dogs in the capital. The monkey
menace too is assuming huge proportions. As chairman of
the MCD how will you help the people?
(a) Employ staff to capture them and set them up in cages
(b) Appeal to NGO's to step in and help solve the
problem
(c) Set up more hospitals for rabies
(d) (a) and (b) only
115. The proposed Diesel hike on Dec 22 2014 will once again
spend prices spiraling. What suggestions do you have to
give to the homemaker who is fed up with rising inflation?
(a) Maintain a tight budget
(b) Write down whatever you spend
(c) Discipline the children regarding this
(d) (b) and (c) only
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.17
116. You go for a date with your friend and he/she comments on
your not looking good. You
(a) get back at him/her telling him/her how bad he/she is
looking
(b) make up some reason as to what went wrong
(c) take offence to it and estrange your relationship
(d) start crying
117. The front office in the organisation you work for has a very
uncomfortable physical set-up to work in. You will
(a) launch a campaign to set things right
(b) complain to seniors about it
(c) ignore everything and concentrate on your job
(d) manage somehow with reluctance
118. There has been a recent death in your family, and you are
still grieving. However, your quarterly appraisal is round the
corner, and for this you have to catch up with a lot of work.
What would you do?
(a) Take the help of your organisation counselor to
overcome your emotions.
(b) Ignore the appraisal and continue working since the
appraisal happens every three months, you feel you
can make up the next time.
(c) You will just try your best to wriggle out of the situation
by asking your superior to postpone the appraisal
for you this time.
(d) You will get back to the work immediately.
119. You are a sincere and dedicated manager in a reputed fivestar
hotel. You have been appointed as the Chief Manager
of the Guwahati branch which needs to be developed. Your
salary has been hiked.
(a) You give it a shot for two months and see how it goes
(b) You accept the challenge and go ahead with the project
(c) You accept another offer and leave the job
(d) You crib for limited resources and try to convince your
superior to send somebody else instead of you
120. Your new boss's wife/ husband offers you a cigarette
knowing fully well that you are trying to quit smoking. What
do you do?
(a) You cannot resist it but think twice before taking it
(b) You accept and readily light it
(c) You accept but do not light the cigarette
(d) You decline her/ his offer
121. You are in the middle of an important dinner party when the
waiter spills steaming hot soup all over the boss' lap. How
would you cope?
(a) You panic and start shouting on the waiter
(b) Arrange for the first-aid and make arrangements to
rush him or her off to the hospital
(c) You dab frantically at the ruined outfit with a napkin
while screaming at the waiter
(d) You pour the entire contents of a jug of water over his
lap, explaining that your prompt action will prevent
burns, and then lay out a change of clothes in the guest
bedroom and return to the party while the boss changes
122. You have a new boss. You
(a) will be indifferent
(b) welcome him warmly
(c) go and flatter him as he will help out in future
(d) have problems adjusting as you are still loyal to your
old boss
123. Suppose your friend visits your home on his way to office.
You
(a) would not do anything as he is late
(b) will compel him to listen to your personal problems
(c) will request him to have some refreshment
(d) would ask him to spend at least 15 minutes with you
124. You are a guest at a dinner. The host asks you to take one
more chapati after your stomach is full. You would
(a) make a blunt refusal
(b) take the chapati
(c) politely say that the food was too good and you have
already eaten much
(d) make a bad face at him
125. You are in the parking area of a shopping complex. And,
suddenly the electricity fails and there is total darkness. You
will
(a) try and take help from someone around
(b) crawl towards your vehicle
(c) shout for help
(d) wait till the lights come
126. You have received a gift early, which your aunt wants you
to open on our birthday, which is two weeks away. You
(a) really want to open it and keep thinking about it, but do
not open it
(b) leave it for a while but eventually open it because you
could not wait
(c) quickly open it because she would not come to know
(d) honour her wish because you know that the gift would
not run way
127. You are a manager of a company and an employee does not
turn up for work because his son was ill. You will
(a) tell him to come on time from now onwards no matter
what
(b) ask him how his son is and give him a day off
(c) give him a strict warning
(d) ask how his son is and tell him to call the office if ever
in future he decides not to come
128. You are a member of the sports team of your college. One
day due to some misunderstanding, other members stop
talking to you. You
(a) ask someone to mediate
(b) go forward and start talking
(c) wait till they come and start talking again
(d) keep to yourself and let things take their time for
improving
1.18 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
129. You are desperately waiting for someone at home. You
(a) don't give, it a thought
(b) are just busy at your work
(c) run out the minute you hear a car stop
(d) call up many times to find out why he/ she is taking so
long
130. If wrongly accused of something, you would
(a) try to convince others, but without any hope of doing so
(b) try your best to convince others and hope that you
succeed
(c) not even try, as it would be of no use
(d) be able to convince others of your innocence easily
131. A product launched by the company is having initial hiccups
and complaints. You will
(a) tell your boss this product should be withdrawn to
save the company's reputation
(b) convince the customers about the working and positive
aspects of the product
(c) warn the customers for initial hiccups
(d) try and convince the customers it is temporary
132. The Chinese PM Wen Jiabao is visiting India. Indo-Chinese
ties are fragile. If you are the Indian PM what will you do to
improve the ties.
(a) Make sure that he is given a warm welcome
(b) Make it clear that India needs China's support
(c) Concentrate on long-term bilateral plans & reforms
(d) (a) and (c) only
133. Crimes against women are increasing in the capital. Women
here feel very unsafe. As Commissioner of police what steps
will you take to control this menace?
(a) Capture the culprits and punish them severely
(b) Put up Police vans at all vantage points
(c) Make sure that there are constables keeping a vigil
throughout the night.
(d) all of the above
134. Intel the computer global giant wants to provide affordable
PC's to the masses. After the disaster of the Nano it comes
as a great surprise. What steps will you take as a CEO of
Intel to make sure that it succeeds.
(a) Make the PC's available at competitive rates
(b) Give the option of replacing them if they do not meet
customer satisfaction
(c) Use expensive components
(d) (a) and (b) only
135. The impasse in the Lok Sabha is expected to continue even
after the Christmas vacation. As speaker how will you resolve
this dilemma?
(a) Order the errant members out of the assembly.
(b) Ask the President to pass an ordinance to stop the
'logjam'.
(c) Use your powers as a speaker with to solve the problem.
(d) Carry out of a detailed study to ensure that you are
taking the right decision
136. You start to work on a project
(a) With great deal of enthusiasm
(b) You would rather plan an activity than take part in it
(c) Lead in organizing the project
(d) By hiring a Group of some kind
137. When you eat a meal with others. You would
(a) entertain others
(b) be usually one of the last to finish
(c) Just eat, drink and be merry
(d) Eat quietly
138. When you find that something you have bought is defective.
You would
(a) demand for an exchange
(b) you hesitate to demand an exchange
(c) demand for refund
(d) Keep quite
139. In being thrown by chance with a stranger
(a) you wait for the person to introduce himself
(b) It is difficult for you to chat about things in general
with people.
(c) Introduce yourself first
(d) Keep quite throughout
140. If some one asks you to take part in many social activities.
You would
(a) ask him to get lost
(b) pay him some money and take excuse
(c) participate with full enthusiasm
(d) can't say
141. If you hold an opinion that is radically different than that
expressed by a lecturer. You would
(a) argue right on the spot
(b) tell the person about it during the lecture
(c) tell the person about it after the lecture
(d) forget about it
142. If you find the price at any retail shop is too much yet you
want to buy that product. You would
(a) argue over the price with a clerk or sales person `
(b) ask for discounts
(c) usually you avoid arguing over a price with a clerk or
sales person
(d) use your credit card and buy it
143. If you have dead line to submit an assignment in the morning.
Then
(a) You often find it difficult to go to sleep at night because
you keep thinking of what will happen next the day.
(b) Just have a sound sleep without being worried about
the work.
(c) Ask any colleague to do the job for you
(d) Ask for more time
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.19
144. If some of your friends are around and see what you are
reading. You would
(a) It bothers you to have people watch you at your work
(b) Ask them to leave you alone
(c) Stop reading and start talking to them
(d) Go to some other place and continue reading
145. If somebody offered you to be a host or hostess for parties
at club. You would
(a) accept gladly
(b) decline outright
(c) ask for more time to think over it
(d) get details about the parties
146. If somebody offered you to address a crowd or audience,
then
(a) The thought of making a speech frightens you.
(b) You would be very happy to have this opportunity.
(c) Ask him to find somebody else
(d) Avoid the situation by giving other excuses
147. At the scene of an accident
(a) You take an active part in helping out.
(b) Wait and Watch
(c) Ask others for help
(d) Just leave the place as soon as possible
148. On any hectic day. How would you react to others?
(a) Your mood often changes
(b) You shout at without knowing why
(c) Ask others not to disturb
(d) Concentrate on your work and try to be patient
149. While traveling by a bus you find it's difficult to get ticket
because of rush and suddenly there is a surprise check for
without ticket travelers.
(a) Jump from the running bus
(b) Try to get the ticket as soon as possible
(c) Wait for the person to come to you
(d) Get ready to pay the fine
150. When you are served stale or inferior food in a restaurant
(a) complain to the manager
(b) don't pay the bill and leave
(c) ask to serve fresh food
(d) can't say
151. While driving your bike you find a dog is chasing furiously
at small child
(a) drive away the dog
(b) try to look for the owner of the dog
(c) ask the child to stay quiet
(d) ask the child to run for his life
152. You usually keep cheerful in spite of trouble, because
(a) being worried wouldn't help
(b) you don't like being worried
(c) you are confident enough for any kind of situation
(d) don't know
153. If you find one boy in your class is creating nuisance
everyday, you would
(a) complain to the teacher
(b) talk to the boy and find out a solution
(c) provoke others against him to teach him a lesson
(d) keep quite
154. While walking on a lonely road if some hooligans threaten
you with weapons and for money. You would
(a) fight with them
(b) surrender whatever you have
(c) shout for help
(d) can't say what to do
155. Shabnam Ramaswamy has actually set up a school for called
Jagriti reforming criminals at Katna. Her story is a sad tale of
wife battering and indescribable courage. Had you been
Shabnam Ramaswamy what would you have done if you
had been surrounded by a group of bandits on your way to
the school.
(a) I would have used my experience with criminals to talk
them into submission.
(b) I would have given up all my belongings fearing for my
life.
(c) I would have maintained a stony silence
(d) I would have wept silently
156. Your superior has asked you to give a presentation on a
topic within two days. Somehow you manage to finish it.
However, during actual presentation your superior is
disappointed and rebukes you for the work done. What will
be your reaction?
(a) Leave the place immediately.
(b) Resign from the job.
(c) React and shout at the superior during actual
presentation.
(d) Ask for feedback and ensure that you will rectify the
errors.
157. You are working on a project report that needs to be
completed and submitted on same day. Suddenly, there is
disturbance in the office and everybody start running. What
will you do?
(a) Try to find out the reason and then sit calmly.
(b) Become a part of the confusion.
(c) Sort out the outburst.
(d) Ignore the problem.
158. You and Gopal have been friends since childhood. You both
share events in your lives with each other. However you
have observed that Gopal has started avoiding you and
does not accept your mobile calls also. He is not even telling
you his problem is. What will you do?
(a) Try to find the reason and solve it.
(b) Leave the situation as it is.
(c) Aggravate the situation by showing emotions.
(d) Let other friends solve the situation.
1.20 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
159. You own a factory. One day there is noise in the factory and
you are told that an iron rod has fallen on two worker’s .
They are badly injured and are bleeding. Everybody is
shouting in panic. What should you do?
(a) Call the union leader and discuss the matter with him.
(b) Tell the labourers to mind their own business.
(c) Get immediate medical attention to the injured.
(d) Call the police to control the situation.
160. On your birthday your friends have asked you to treat them.
You take them a restaurant. Once the bill arrives, you realise
that you have left behind your wallet. What will you do?
(a) You will excuse yourself and disappear without telling
anyone.
(b) Ask one of your friends to pay and pay him back when
you reach home.
(c) You will convince the manager so that you can pay the
bill later.
(d) Cry in front of your friends.
161. You are working on a project with a deadline. You have
delegated specific work to every team members. You are
informed about the sudden demise of the father of a team
member. You have been entrusted with the responsibility of
breaking the news to him. What will you do?
(a) Inform him at once and permit him to leave the important
project.
(b) Inform him immediately but take his inputs about his
work, and assure him that you will manage and take
care of the rest. Then, you relieve him.
(c) Decide not to tell him as he will leave on receiving this
news which would be detrimental to your project.
(d) Call off the project.
162. You are working in a company where you observe that the
employees are working to below their potential. They waste,
time and are bored with their monotonous jobs. You have an
idea to improve productivity of the employees but your
superiors have a low opinion of you. They are most likely to
reject your idea. What will you do?
(a) Convey the idea to your superiors.
(b) Present data to strengthen your point and then share
the idea.
(c) Ignore the superiors.
(d) Pass on the idea indirectly through your subordinates.
163. Your are in an organisation required to communicate and
interact daily with your subordinates and your peers. You
report weekly to the management. Therefore, communication
becomes an essential part of your work. How, should you
communicate at the workplace?
(a) Should communicate minimum.
(b) Listen with one ear and speak distractedly with your
subordinates as they do not require attention.
(c) Should be focused.
(d) Should always be attentive and clear.
164. You have been shifted to a department as an officer with 50
employees. You observe that most employees come late to
work. How would you communicate the need to come on
time?
(a) Call for the attendance register and start crossing those
coming late to and send the message to everyone to
come on time.
(b) Hold a staff meeting and tell them to be punctual and
also convey to and them that in the future action would
be taken against them if they are late.
(c) Write a letter to all employees about coming on time.
(d) Prefer to observe and ask the establishment in-charge
to speak to those coming late to be on time.
165. You have been employed in the service sector for the last
two years. You have been reassigned to look into, marketing.
After analysis, you find that the quality of customer service
is low. How would you convey your employees the need for
improvement?
(a) Make a presentation to all employees about the declining
levels of customer service asking them to improve.
(b) Call for a meeting of key officials responsible for
customer services and then issue a common letter to
each employee expressing concerns of this declining
trend and need for correction.
(c) Talk to all employees by rotation specifying the declining
trend of customer service which becomes a critical
concern for the organisation.
(d) Provide training to the employees to improve customer
service.
166. You and your colleagues have gone for an investigation.
While leaving the scene, you notice that one of the staff has
picked up an article from the house and keep it into his
pocket. You
(a) Report the matter to your officer.
(b) Warn your colleague to keep the article back or you will
report the matter .
(c) Ignore the act as it would spoil the image of your
colleague.
(d) Shout at him reminding him of his duty.
167. You have to go for some important work and find that your
colleague has taken your official vehicle away. You
(a) Call him and criticise him for his act.
(b) Wait for him to return.
(c) Arrange some alternative vehicle and talk to your
colleague later.
(d) Inform your superior.
168. An senior citizen has been making rounds of your office for
getting his pension documents cleared. You have noticed
him for over a week but the staff is not clearing his file as
certain documents are missing. The elderly man gets angry
after making so many rounds and shouts. You ...
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.21
(a) Call the dealing clerk and ask him to deal with his file.
(b) Call him to your office and try to pacify him explaining
the necessity of documents.
(c) Ask the concerned department/ to look for alternative
solutions so that you can clear his file.
(d) Wait for the matter to come upto you.
169. You are as the head of your department. Your role is
supervisory, and you are willing to work efficiently. You have
always been anxious about your effective supervision
abilities. Which of the following do you think is needed for
effective supervision?
(a) Concern for employees, trust and warmth.
(b) Needs of supervisor and subordinates to be kept in
mind.
(c) Personality of both the supervisor and subordinates to
be considered.
(d) All of the above.
170. You are an officer and your superior orders the staff not to
do any work for any department other than their own. He
also tells you to avoid people outside your department. The
superior officer is.
(a) Using close supervision.
(b) Adheres to organisation structure.
(c) Task oriented.
(d) Boosting his personal power.
171. You are a Director and are addressing the departments under
your control on communication skills. You think that this is
the mantra for efficient working and productive performance.
Therefore, you issue guidelines to the staff. Which of the
following is not a correct guideline?
(a) Be an active listener.
(b) Do not criticise.
(c) Create standards for improvements.
(d) Make your subordinates defensive.
172. You are the department head and want to streamline
communication in your department. You have various options
that are essential in creating effective communication. Which
of the following will ensure effective formal communication?
(a) Rules, policies, procedures.
(b) Computerised systems.
(c) Manual systems.
(d) Organisation structure
173. You are an expert on Tax but is working in a small
organisation. You get an offer from a big public sector
undertaking to look after its Tax matter’s pending in various
departments. What you would do?
(a) A very challenging task should accept the challenge.
(b) Easy going so drop the idea.
(c) Will win abilities.
(d) None of the above.
174. You are working in a crucial project under strict monitoring
and personal supervision of your boss. Due to some personal
work you want to go on leave for a few days. You would?
(a) Pick up the phone/meet the boss and ask for permission.
(b) Send a note through someone close to him
(c) Take leave and inform him later.
(d) Do not take leave and ignore the personal problem.
175. You are the IT expert in a consultancy but the work assigned
to you is Human Resources an area in which you have limited
knowledge.
(a) At the time of assignment, you should inform the boss
about not having relevant experience.
(b) Inform the seniors in writing that this work is not of any
concerned to you.
(c) Whisper in the office that the boss trusts you and gives
me every work. Do a limited job and send it to the boss.
(d) Take help from co-worker and after learning the ropes
dispose the work and inform the senior that you have
taken the help of a fellow worker to finish the job.
176. You are extremely punctual and always reach office on time.
However, one day your vehicle breaks down, you get late
and get caught with the late comers.
(a) You will tell inform the Boss about late coming in detail
both verbally and in writing.
(b) Return home and submit a leave application.
(c) Complain to fellow worker against the Boss that you
come every day on time but if I am late for one day it
really does not matter.
(d) Start working silently without undertaking any other
action.
177. You are going with a delegation of CEOs from India. Leader
of the delegation directs you to lead in a meeting in which
seniors will also be present.
(a) There will be initial hesitation while speaking before
senior officials.
(b) You will be unhappy as the Boss knew about your
disability. Why did he assign you the job.
(c) Without hesitating that seniors are present you will
obey the order of the boss showing your capability
and analyse the situation truthfully.
(d) Request the boss to lead during the meeting.
178. Your Senior is on leave due to his daughter's wedding and
you have been assigned to do routine work in your branch
by the zonal manager?
(a) You will dispose of the work to avoid any damage to
the organisation.
(b) You will create a favourable environment and permit
the staff to work with initiative.
(c) Terrorise terrorising and boss around after getting
power.
(d) When the boss comes back you will show the benefit
the organisation has made with your new idea and
method.
1.22 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
179. After a long and successful period in your branch, your
boss has been promoted to the Board and has got transferred
to Delhi. A new boss takes charge in your branch.
(a) You will narrate a false sentimental story to get
kindness.
(b) Will speak against your colleagues to get his kindness.
(c) You will win his trust by doing your job.
(d) You will work no matter who is your superior.
180. Apart from being a works supervisor, you have the additional
task of being a channel between the boss and employees to
improve coordination. What would your strategy be?
(a) Employees will submit their problems in writing.
(b) Boss should meet everybody once a month in which
he should listen to the problems and sort them out.
(c) All demand should be raised through an association
and if not fulfilled then demonstrate to get it fullfilled.
(d) Don’t tell the boss about non-cooperation till your target
is achieved.
181. You are an investment banker in, an organization that follows
strict gender policy and has an equal number of male-female
employees. What will be your attitude towards female
coworkers?
(a) You will maintain a distance from them.
(b) You will treat them like any other employee.
(c) You will assist them in their work.
(d) You will show kindness to them as they are female.
182. In a factory a machine has to be repaired for increasing
output. Foreign engineers are hired for the task but, are not
able to complete the project. A skilled labourer gives a
suggestion for enhancing the machine's performance. The
company engineer agrees and raise the performance of the
machine.
(a) Credit should go to the local skilled labourer.
(b) Credit should go to the Indian engineer.
(c) Credit should go to both the skilled labourer and the
Indian engineer.
(d) Credit should go to all the three-skilled labour, Indian
engineer and foreign engineer.
183. During peak time excessive work load is created in your
organisation. How will you deal with excessive work load?
(a) You will ask your subordinates to work and give them
overtime.
(b) Allow them to leave office at closing time.
(c) Request additional staff.
(d) You will keep quiet.
184. You have been given a precise timeline within which you
have to finish the work assigned to you. You will.
(a) achieve it without planning.
(b) achieve it by planning.
(c) refuse work assuming that it cannot be completed.
(d) assure the senior official regarding completion work on
time and explain the delay later.
185. You have been given an assignment by the Head of the
Department in a different area about which you have no
knowledge. What would you do?
(a) refuse to undertake that work
(b) perform that work according to your knowledge
(c) take the help of others to accomplish that work.
(d) finish that work
186. You have been assigned a target but you have not been
given appropriate resources. There is lack of finances,
manpower and government cooperation. What do you do
in such a situation?
(a) You will still try to achieve the target.
(b) You will use the limited resources in an efficient manner.
(c) You will request for more resources to achieve the target.
(d) Use the limited resources and then demand resource at
a later stage.
187. In a Government job related to financial matters, you will be:
(a) dependent on the Cashier.
(b) direct the Cashier after acquiring full financial
knowledge.
(c) be aware about the work and follow all the financial
rules
(d) not be oblige to follow the financial rules
188. You are taking a morning walk when a dog jumps on you and
bites you. What will you do in such a case?
(a) Continue with the morning walk.
(b) Return home immediately
(c) Tie up your handkerchief around the wound
(d) Rush to hospital for treatment.
189. Which would describe a good employee most appropriately?
(a) Comes to office and does not work but chats.
(b) Comes to office daily, works according to rules and is
obedient.
(c) Come to office daily and forces the boss to do all the
work according to the rules.
(d) Come to the office late and leaves early, but finishes all
the work .
190. A good officer must have:
(a) Honesty (b) Loyal to work
(c) Good communication (d) Speaks excessively
191. A good employee should be one who:
(a) Report to the office on time.
(b) Finishes the work on time.
(c) Leaves office before closing time.
(d) Comes to office late.
192. An officer has been assigned a target for completion of
his work. What should he do to complete it on time?
(a) Pressurize his subordinates.
(b) Plan the work schedule gradually.
(c) Take legal action for achieving target.
(d) Achieve target by team work and coordination.
Interpersonal & Communication Skills        1.23
193. How should an immediate boss behave with his
subordinates?
(a) Employees should be permitted to show their
disagreement
(b) Should be angry with a few and affectionate to others.
(c) Should maintain a distance from subordinates.
(d) Employees should feel both scared and also
affectionate
194. What is appropriate behaviour of a Controlling Officer
towards a new employee?
(a) Do not create close relationship immediately.
(b) Meet him with an expression of unwillingness.
(c) Advise him to work responsibly.
(d) I introduce the new employee to all and request for
cooperation.
195. What should be merits of a Head of Department. He should
have:
(a) knowledge of work.
(b) an attitude of a leader.
(c) honesty and expertise.
(d) All of the above.
196. You are the Senior Production Manager of a Steel firm and
have won the bid to supply steel for railway bridges across
river Ganga. You have been as to ensure maximum
production in the next eight months. You would.
(a) Plan out a production strategy with your team and
monitor production schedule at regular intervals.
(b) Pressurise the production team to meet the target
anyhow.
(c) Relax thinking that the work will be done anyway.
(d) Pass on the responsibility to higher management.
197. You are a senior advisor to a real estate company. You have
to give your opinion on short listing an organisation to
collaborate with your company for developing the athletes'
village for the National Games. Which of the following will
you will short list?
(a) Organization A, which has adequate resources for the
project.
(b) Organization B, which has goodwill but no past
experience of such a project.
(c) Organization C, which has enough experience and
resources.
(d) Organization D, which does not have experience or
resources but has been recommended by your senior.
198. On Saturday, you are at home as you have taken leave to
finish personal commitments and want to complete them
so that you can go back to your official duties. An
acquaintance, visits you and he is in a relaxed and gossiping
mood. How would you react?
(a) You will passively listen to his chitchat and ignore the
conversation to discourage his gossip.
(b) You enjoy his company and spend time with your
friend relaxing then resume work.
(c) You give him due respect but tell him that you are in
a hurry and cannot spend time with him.
(d) You sit and wait for his departure
199. You are the head of your office. There are certain houses
reserved for the allotment to the office staff and you have
been given the discretion to do so. A set of rules for the
allotment of the houses has been laid down by you and
has been made public. Your personal secretary, who is very
close to you, comes to you and pleads that as his father
is seriously ill, he should be given priority in allotment of
a house. The office secretariat that examined the request
as per the rules turns down the request and recommends
the procedure to be followed according to the rules. You
do not want to annoy your personal secretary. In such
circumstances, what would you do?
(a) Call him over to your room and personally explain why
the allotment cannot be done.
(b) Allot the house to him to win his loyalty.
(c) Agree with the office note to show that you are not
biased and that you do not indulge in favouritism.
(d) Keep the file with you and not pass any orders.
200. While travelling in a Delhi-registered commercial taxi from
Delhi to an adjacent city (another State), your taxi driver
informs you that as he has no permit for running the taxi
in that city, he will stop at its Transport Office and pay
the prescribed fee of ` forty for a day. While paying the
fee at the counter you find that the transport clerk is taking
an extra fifty rupees for which no receipt is being given.
You are in a hurry for your meeting. In such circumstances,
what would you do?
(a) Go up to the counter and ask the clerk to give back
the money which he has illegally taken.
(b) Do not interfere at all as this is a matter between the
taxi driver and the tax authorities.
(c) Take note of the incident and subsequently report the
matter to the concerned authorities.
(d) Treat it as a normal affair and simply forget about it.
201. A person lives in a fair off village which is almost two hours
by bus. The villager’s neighbour is a very powerful landlord
who is trying to occupy the poor villager’s land by force.
You are the District Magistrate and busy in a meeting called
by a local Minister. The villager has come all the way, by
bus and on foot, to see you and give an application
seeking protection from the powerful landlord. The villager
keeps on waiting outside the meeting hall for an hour. You
come out of the meeting and are rushing to another meeting.
The villager follows you to submit his application. What
would you do?
1.24 Interpersonal & Communication Skills
(a) Tell him to wait for another two hours till you come
back from your next meeting.
(b) Tell him that the matter is actually to be dealt by a
junior officer and that he should give the application
to him.
(c) Call one of your senior subordinate officers and ask
him to solve the villager’s problem.
(d) Quickly take the application from him, ask him a few
relevant questions regarding his problem and then
proceed to the meeting.
202. There is a shortage of sugar in your District where you are
the District Magistrate. The Government has ordered that
only a maximum amount of 30 kg sugar is to be released
for wedding celebrations. A son of your close friend is
getting married and your friend requests you to release at
least 50 kg sugar for his son’s wedding. He expresses
annoyance when you tell him about the Government’s
restrictions on this matter. He feels that since you are the
District Magistrate you can release any amount./ You do
not want to spoil your friendship with him. In such
circumstances, how would you deal with the situation?
(a) Releases the extra amount of sugar which your friend
has requested for.
(b) Refuse your friend the extra amount and strictly follow
the rules.
(c) Show your friend the copy of the Government
instructions and then persuade him to accept the lower
amount as prescribed in the rules.
(d) Advise him to directly apply to the allotting authority
and inform him that you do not interfere in this matter.
203. You are in-charge of implementing the Family Planning
programme in an area where there is a strong opposition
to the present policy. You want to convince the residents
of the need for keeping small families. What would be the
best way of communicating this message?
(a) By logically explaining to the residents the need for
family planning to improve the health and living
standards.
(b) By encouraging late marriages and proper spacing of
children.
(c) By offering incentives for adopting family planning
devices.
(d) By asking people who have been sterilized or are using
contraceptives to directly talk to the residents.
204. You are a teacher in a University and are setting a question
paper on a particular subject. One of your colleagues, whose
son is preparing for the examination on that subject, comes
to you and informs you that it is his son’s last chance to
pass that examination and whether you could help him by
indicating what questions are going to be in the
examination. In the past, your colleague had helped you
in another matter. Your colleague informs you that his son
will suffer from depression if he fails in this examination.
In such circumstances, what would you do?
(a) In view of the help he had given you, extend your help
to him.
(b) Regret that you cannot be of any help to him.
(c) Explain to your colleague that this would be violating
the trust of the University authorities and you are not
in a position to help him.
(d) Report the conduct of your colleague to the higher

